######################### story 47806725: Claude Design (159 matches)
[alpb] id=47807170
This largely appears to be a HTML generator at its core, not necessarily what Figma does with layers/canvases etc. There's no collaborative nature to it either.It feels like a lightly designed product that moves claude CLI to their backend, generates the HTMLs and renders them in browser on claude.ai website for you. Sure, it accepts your design system as an input from you or imports from your repo, but you could feed the same into claude CLI as well?I'm curious what exactly it gives besides having claude CLI + prompting it well with your design system + skills.

[diatone] id=47807435
Yep agree it looks like it’s taking the existing generated artefact, parameterising it within an inch of its life, exposing a pseudo WYSIWYG for the parameters and calling it a day with a few export options. Not a huge leap from what they’ve got already but it’s a clever adjacent step for sure. Same product new chrome.

[ej88] id=47806939
This is cool!Seems like Claude is actually building almost like a layered Figma wireframe that you can do fine grained adjustments afterwards (e.g. adjust font size).Interesting that Canva provided a quote of support. I'm not familiar with the differentiation, but it seems like this will directly siphon customers from Canva, right?

[cruffle_duffle] id=47812825
I mean you aren’t wrong. It’s just I don’t think it requires any kind of vote manipulation to see why ai company releases hit the front page.  Back in browser war days it was the same thing.

[nerptastic] id=47836335
I agree — right now it's "all eyes on AI". They are moving fast, I don't think there's some evil plan behind the scenes. They're trying to build software super-weapons, and they're trying all sorts of different things because they can iterate quickly.Of course the articles are going to get to the top. It's all anyone is thinking about, and has been for the last few years. I keep wondering if we're going to reach some sort of inflection point where the hype starts to die down, but then another "tool" is released and everyone is convinced that this is the one that will take the jobs. It's a bit tiring, but this is the brave new world.

[nothinkjustai] id=47807966
It’s honestly been my experience. I think I’ve vibe coded one thing that I’ve found to be genuinely useful to me, everything else has ended up as useless slop given time.I think we probably need less software, but higher quality, not more. Unfortunately AI only goes in one direction…

[cruffle_duffle] id=47808311
You can let the LLM create slop for you, sure. But only amateurs are using it for that. You’ll be much happier if you treat it as a tool and use it like any other, a force multiplier to take your ideas and creations and pushes them further along faster.If you treat it like a black box used to outsource your own thinking, you are holding it wrong.

[nothinkjustai] id=47807933
I doubt you’d be singing the same tune if Anthropic released Claude Researcher and a bunch of people were saying “I’m a designer, not a biologist. I don’t need great research. I just need X”Ironically I think AI will replace researchers before it replaces artists.

[wolttam] id=47807354
Human inputs their idea. AI helps bring it to light faster. Human iterates.Still human?

[esafak] id=47807384
This is just going to chop the bottom end off, same as with software. If you are great you get to keep your job.The catch is that the person making the decision might not know or care about the difference.

[irishcoffee] id=47807076
I think that's the wrong question. What kind of shadow spy network must exist around all these companies such that they all happen to be working on the same features at the same time.

[embedding-shape] id=47807190
> What kind of shadow spy network must exist around all these companies such that they all happen to be working on the same features at the same time.Stuff like that happened even before the invention of the telephone, humans within the same geographic location is even more predicable, so surely this shouldn't come as a surprise.

[jonlucc] id=47807267
Frequently, two movies with very similar concepts drop the same year. Is that because they're spying, or because the companies make decisions in similar ways based on similar input information?

[xpe] id=47807385
The human brain strikes again. It is built into our cognitive machinery to look for patterns and naively ascribe causation. We're not rational beings that sometimes mess up. We're a clusterf--k of cognitive biases all the way down.*Cool pattern! Sure, maybe there is something there.** And/or maybe our brain is doing "conspiracy theorizing lite". Its all on the same spectrum -- the same flawed cognitive machinery trying to operate in a weird modern world quite different from where we came from.A better way: write out your favorite hypothesis. But don't stop there... keep going... write out many hypotheses. Then find ways to test them. To tap into our best selves, I recommend The Scout Mindset (book). Here is an infographic summary of part of it: https://imgur.com/qN31PX8Probably not a better way: float one's first gut feels to the Internet phrased as i.e. the better question and feed empty calories to our pattern-craving brains. There is reason some of our brain functions are considered higher order.* Maybe I'm overstating this. Let me know? I want to read Rationality and the Reflective Mind by Keith Stanovich (https://academic.oup.com/book/5930) as a counterpoint to the usual suspects (such as Tversky & Kahneman)** But what is there. What kind of pattern? What kind(s) of causation could be at work? See Judea Pearl's "ladder of causation". Nice write-up here: https://samuel-book.github.io/causal_inference_notebook/pear...

[MagicMoonlight] id=47813818
All their outputs are slop, nobody is actually working to address them.

[quacked] id=47807054
I hate it so much. Ah, your website/app/program is comprised of rounded-corner cards in four colors (color/pale color/white/grey), with a dark theme. Your clickable text isn't visually distinguishable from your non-clickable text. All of your logos are sans-serif SVGs. Your settings and action menus are split across four different primary hidden locations. Your scroll bars disappear even when there's text hidden offscreen. You try to guess what I want to click on by showing a series of competing horizontally-organized pills over the top of the content instead of just giving me a consistent set of action buttons.AI companies: "good news, everyone! We've automated all those steps so they're even easier to generate!"I think the same thing is happening in physical construction. Ah, I see you've designed a new box with four primary color tones and slightly offset vertical lines to break up the windows.

[Maxion] id=47807087
This aestethic is useful though for SaaS apps and the like that know themselves to be generic.

[volkk] id=47807066
that's how i've felt about all AI design. the harnesses get better and cooler, and the outputs up the baseline of utter crap to "whoa that doesn't look bad at all!" which works for probably 90% of the web, but anything truly unique still requires a lot of human taste. maybe that will change one day, but I hope it doesn't.

[threetonesun] id=47807094
I'd argue it's relatively unimpressive given the ability to create design systems and apply themes to them to create relatively generic content has existed for a long time now.Sure, some prototypes will be spun up more quickly. But if this was a real problem large companies faced it would have been solved in software already.

[prmph] id=47815000
Your point is true, but the one I was replying to was focusing on the aesthetic aspect. For them, the sameness of UIs, while functional, make for a drab experience.My point is that I don't find this to be case. Rather, consistent UIs, while functional, are also beautiful to me. The constituents of the UI can be designed with aesthetic taste, but the way it is all put together consistently and functionally has a beauty all its own.

[threatofrain] id=47808357
I think there's something nice about the idea of a store owner which has unnecessarily decorated the store with love, even with the liability of a cat; it's not delivering the product better and the cat may actually make things worse because of allergies.A cold American convenience store may be delivering the fundamental value at American prices, but there's something to be said about that "extra" human or creative element. One might say the same thing about the changing nature of the web over time, less individual CSS chaos and more Facebook aesthetics.

[Fordec] id=47808880
> They're paying for insight, leverage, velocity, convenience, whatever.Correct, they are paying for work done by people in other roles, who's title isn't UI or UX designer. It's on the backend person for velocity, it's for business development for leverage, it's on data scientists for insight, it's on logistics for convenience. Those people will be paid for solving those problems, not for tweaking CSS. My team, who falls into this category of more invisible work, has not hired UI or UX person at all. Which by mathematically speaking by default, is simply below the average rate for that work. Meanwhile Apple will pay easily mid six figures for someone in a more flashy role.

[9rx] id=47813615
That is in large part because there was no uncanny valley, so to speak. Where it was different, it was different with a purpose and was intentional about it. Where there was no purpose, like in secondary menus, it still used native widgets like users expected.The parent is talking about toolkits like Swing where things looked[1] almost, sort of, but not quite like the native system. That wanted to be native, but for technical reasons fell short. These are what many considered to be completely unfit for use. Whereas today, designers wouldn't think twice about applying the same kind of almost-native-but-not-quite theme to match their arbitrary whims and think they are doing the world a service by doing so, the UI conventions (to the extent that there remains any) of the host system be damned.[1] https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/cc/Gui-widg...

[bombcar] id=47815549
I still cringe every time I get Minecraft to pop up a generic Java UI window on a Mac (of course it now even looks out of place on Windows).

[BeetleB] id=47808679
I miss the days when there was no "standard visual appearance" for the OS (e.g. DOS). I liked the diversity of interfaces.Years ago, I remarked to a friend that I'd spent half of my (computing) life post-high speed Internet, yet almost all my happy memories are from before that. It was the same for him, and we both explored why that was.The homogeneity of interfaces was actually one of the reasons we came up with on why doing work at a computer is a lot less appealing.

[thewebguyd] id=47808728
I'll still die on this hill, but I think that the reason there's a computer literacy problem is because we moved away from following OS conventions (when they existed) and into bespoke, branded UIs for everything, and then eventually to web where every site and webapp behaves differently.In the early days, if you learned the OS, those usage patterns and skilled transferred to every app on that OS. They all looked roughly the same, shared the same menus, shame shortcuts, same icons, etc. You didn't have to learn how to use Apps x, y, and z. You just had to learn Windows (to an extent).Then marketing got involved, and then the web, and then suddenly every piece of software had to stand out and look and behave as unique as possible, throwing years of HIG research out the window.

[ilikecakeandpie] id=47807436
There's a real problem with everything looking the same though. For a consumer product, you lose brand recognition. For a B2B product, you can confuse your users because Tool A and Tool B look exactly the same. You have to look hard at the name, kind of like prescription pill bottles.

[slopinthebag] id=47808088
It's no different to people trying to reduce the role of Programming to the same lego-block assembling process. And I believe the same conclusion follows.

[slopinthebag] id=47808066
The issue is that you actually don't want it to look like the modern ubiquitous UI we see everywhere, because it's some of the most jarring, least-intuitive crap we could possibly design. Even I struggle with it when trying to help my parents out, so of course they have no chance, and if they have no chance neither does the hospital lawyer. Modern UI is garbage, and thus this just outputs garbage. Believe it or not, creating good UI takes real skill and experience. You can't just slop it out and expect your tool to do what it's supposed to do.

[mbesto] id=47810185
> There's no shame in being homogenous and obvious, though.The real world analog is this...The reason people (especially Americans) stay in Marriott property hotels is because they are homogenous. If all I want to do is travel to Phoenix, AZ for work I want to know that the hotel room has the same mattress, desk, TV, customer service, etc. There is real legitimate value to that. So I'll book the Courtyard in Phoenix because I know exactly what I'm going to get.On the other hand, when I'm traveling the Amalfi Coast in Italy, I want the Airbnb experience. Sure the bed is stiff, there's no A/C, and the 80 year old door frame is hard to close, but there is something magical about it.

[sdoering] id=47810300
It is actually a rational choice. It is a defense against extremely bad experiences.A personal example from a few weeks back. My SO booked a hotel for a weekend as a birthday present. We went there, it had a fantastic spa, dinner was delicious, the room great, clean, and so on. Individually designed, well thought out, friendly staff.Breakfast came around and the coffee was abysmal. Really truly abysmal. What did we do? While eating breakfast we looked for a McDonalds, as we know for sure, that regardless where you are - you will at least find an okay and drinkable coffee at McDonalds. It is not a great coffee. And will never be. But the likelyhood is very low that you will find a shit coffee.Marriott is basically the same for hotels. Or MotelOne in Germany. It is the power of brand - you get a solid 7 out of ten. And to be honest - when I am traveling for work, this is all I want. I want to know, that I will have a clean room, a bed that is good to sleep in. And the knowledge, that I will likely wake up rested the next day when I have to be at my best for my clients.The risk of ending in a shit-hole got smaller because nowadays people write their experiences - but on the other hand, having seen how many of my reviews were being deleted by Google, Yelp, TripAdvisor and the likes because some lawyer requested it - I don't give a rat's shit for online reviews.

[ValentineC] id=47812268
> Marriott is basically the same for hotels.Marriotts are sadly not the same between countries, and that's probably a good thing.The standard for large chain hotels in the US are much, much lower than everywhere else in the world. Full-service Hiltons in the US don't even have executive lounges anymore.

[cultofmetatron] id=47814477
> The standard for large chain hotels in the US are much, much lower than everywhere else in the world.this is true for fast food as well. mcdonalds in poland and spain were MUCH better than the slop in america. I had taco bell here in srilanka recently. it was DELICIOUS and tasted like real food. same goes for popeyes and pizza hut here. pizza hut in america on the other hand tastes regrettable and left me feeling like shit.

[parpfish] id=47815276
I have Taco Bell here in the USofA and it is also delicious. Delicious slop that has sadly become overpriced, but I love it.

[teiferer] id=47811213
McDonalds. Homogenous everywhere in the world. US, Italy, Japan, Brazil, same stuff.Good pizza in Italy, goos ramen in Japan, grilled Picanha in Brazil, that's why you go there and want it different/original.But in software UI this is often overdone. I want the pizzazz in my audio software in what it produces, not in how the UI looks like.

[ekianjo] id=47812007
"extremely different" is an exaggeration. It's mostly the same with some local differences.

[solatic] id=47813429
Considering that people expect literally the same thing, I can understand how even small regional differences can seem extreme. Like not finding any beef on the menu in India, or any bacon in the Middle East.

[makingstuffs] id=47813446
I’d say the only place I’ve experienced McDonald’s to be ‘extremely’ different is in India due to the obvious prevalence of vegetarianism and outlawing of beef.In other countries the do have a lot of additional meals which are specific to their local taste (rice/fried chicken/different sauces) but the core burgers like a Big Mac, mcChicken and sides such as fries are there.

[spockz] id=47813636
I second that. There is a mile difference between the sorry excuse of a burger that’s called Big Tasty and McCrispy in the Netherlands versus the already way better proportioned and fresher one you get in Germany, up to the better ones in Italy.Besides the bun, it is noticeable in every part. The amounts and quality of the sauce, vegetables, and meat. And finally how the burger is presented.So if this difference can occur within 1000km of each other in the same continent, I fully accept that it is even more varied in the whole world.

[teiferer] id=47813843
Maybe your sample size is too small? I've lived close to the NL/D border for a while and the McD quality was indistinguishable on both sides of the border. The variation between restaurants in the same country and also between different days/times in the same restaurant was much greater than between countries.Thatis, if you happen to go to a random McD in some country and the big mac was great that day and you go to a different restaurant in a different country on a different day and the big mac was bad, then that difference has likely least to do with them being in different countries. It's not like they actually use different recipes.

[ruszki] id=47815215
The American McDonald’s is a magnitude worse than the European (all of them), Australian or New Zealander. The menu is different in every country. However, it’s getting more uniform. Cheeseburger is the same basically everywhere outside of America, but not there. As somebody who got used to the European McDonald’s and tried it in about 30 countries all around the world, American McDonald’s is inedible. So there are differences. I completely understand the American sentiment of it, because it’s really, really terrible there.

[pxoe] id=47812256
Especially americans? The popularity and demand for homogenous american products and services (and other similarly homogenous things from other countries) overseas shows that it's not just "especially americans". What point would that even make? If anything the amount of people and customers of such things worldwide could easily outnumber just the people who live in one country, even as big. Desiring a level of service is not really a "uniquely american" thing. Perhaps there's also some impression that there's some "international homogeneity" that blurs things and makes it seem like it's coming from one place (even though it's a mix), but seemingly "cultural and local" things in other countries can be no less homogenous. Going from one japanese ryokan to another you're gonna experience the same level of homogeneity.

[Gud] id=47814231
More important than “same”, you don’t want any weird shit going on.I travel 300 days a year work for and stay in hotel apartments, and I still miss the Hyatt I stayed in Manchester in 2021… last place I stayed that had gotten everything right.

[dgb23] id=47813823
Thank you for saying this.I hear it all the time in the recent two years: web development is apparently dead now, because anyone can just slap together a web site or build a dashboard in minutes etc. because of LLMs.But that has been true for decades: Templates, component libraries and so on.But I guess it’s now easier to adjust them if you‘re not familiar with their configuration or something.

[adriand] id=47807322
There are still SO MANY insanely ugly, hard-to-use, absolutely horrible apps out there though. Sure, in consumer-focused apps, there's a lot of competition and pretty much everything popular is well-designed. But in enterprise? My god, it's still a massive shitshow.The hilarious thing is that I would be willing to bet than in a decade, it's STILL a massive shitshow in enterprise. That's because the problem with enterprise software is not that good design is all that difficult to pull off (it just requires caring!) It's that the people making enterprise software have terrible taste and can't even see (I am convinced) that the thing they built is ugly and hard-to-use.

[jjk166] id=47807972
> It's that the people making enterprise software have terrible taste and can't even see (I am convinced) that the thing they built is ugly and hard-to-use.Generally the issue with enterprise is that its designed to appeal to the stakeholders who will make the purchasing decision, not the person who is actually going to use it. The people making it may have great taste and know damn well what they could do to make it more usable, but if a clean and easy tool doesn't match someone's preconceived notion of what the purchaser thinks the tool ought to look like then it's not going to fly.

[carimura] id=47807722
Music isn't really new either it's just recombining riffs already created. But the recombinations create new experiences. Might be the same with design?

[ljm] id=47808431
AI can already generate music and it stands out a mile both in terms of the lyrical content and how middle of the road it all is. People will create some slop on Suno and lip-sync to it on TikTok because they absolutely don't sound like a thousand country singers blended into one.So it's competent, for sure, but that is damning it with faint praise.

[jjk166] id=47807886
> You'll get a competent UI with little effort but nothing truly unique or mind-blowing.90+% of attempts at making a truly unique or mind-blowing UI produce a mind-blowingly bad UI. For 0.5 seconds of wow factor, you've added substantial unnecessary friction. Outside of art projects where that wow factor is the point, it really should not be attempted, most certainly not by someone without the appropriate skillset.The old skool artisanal weirdness was not a purposeful stylistic choice, it was a bunch of people trying to do the best they could with crappy tools. There may be some je ne sais quoi which is lost with the shift to mass adoption, but the reason for the mass adoption of these particular design trends was that they were objectively superior.

[Griffinsauce] id=47811432
This take is the death of joy.Look up in an old city, look at the facades of the buildings. They have quirks, uniqueness, it makes the city almost a living thing. Every time we shave off another edge we lose that. Nevermind the fact that shoehorning everything into the same patterns is actually an antipattern and very good paradigms have been invented after the 90s.It's not perfect, but I'd rather have a bit of a mess than boring emptiness.

[skydhash] id=47813717
Facade are to be looked at, not to be used. Most things that are to be used in a practical manner has retained the same basic form: desks, chair, handle, cart, cup,…

[debesyla] id=47814491
Dunno, I have been in IKEA and saw 50 types of drawer handles, for example :)(Same for car interior design, or things like even doors that some swivels on one axis, some split on multiple, some slide.)I don't think that us humans really actually like/want standarts. We think we do, but there are 100+1+1 standart from which to choose. So Claude becoming "standart" iš just +1 standart to choose from. Unique is fun!

[armchairhacker] id=47807969
Did you try asking Claude Design to generate a complex UI with lots of custom details?Or “2000s aesthetic” for something before Web 2.0 (although you’ll get a generic 2000s aesthetic unless you provide more detail).

[nunodonato] id=47808305
> Impressive technology, but that old skool artisanal weirdness of yore only becomes more valuable and nostalgic.but does it still exists? Even without AI everyone is utilizating the same css frameworks, same libraries and templates... design is pretty much boring these days. CSS Zen Garden anyone?

[avaer] id=47811322
> You'll get a competent UI with little effort but nothing truly unique or mind-blowing.The shelf-life of unique and mindblowing has reduced to a week (being generous) before it's copied by slop artists looking for a resume booster or funding, and months tops before it's part of training data for everyone. Unless you find it in that small time window everything will seem homogenous.It could just be a systemic result; unless you deliberately take the lonely road to parts of the internet where other people aren't, you will not see unique and mind blowing things. Which by definition you can't source from a place that has a lot of users, like social media or popular forums.

[LogicFailsMe] id=47814416
Now do AI art and music. I think a lot of the same applies there.

[coder543] id=47807061
From the page:> Import from anywhere. Start from a text prompt, upload images and documents (DOCX, PPTX, XLSX), or point Claude at your codebase. You can also use the web capture tool to grab elements directly from your website so prototypes look like the real product.

[ossa-ma] id=47807073
The more I think about it the more this isn't good for design [EDIT], for a few reasons:- The best design is original, groundbreaking and often counterintuitive. An AI model is incapable of that, it's uninspired, it will absolutely converge to the norm and homogeneity (you see it everywhere now, just scroll on ShowHN and take a look at the UIs) and produce the safest design that appeals to its understanding of the ideal user.- Good designers will reject this, they prefer to be hands-on and draw from multiple sources of inspiration which is what Figma boards and Canva is good for, also mainly for cross-collaboration. If you've seen how quickly a great design engineer can prototype you'll know that "speed" they advertise in this video is not worth the tradeoff.- Creatives typically have a very very very high aversion to AI.- Non-designers will not see a purpose for this tool, basic design can already be done through Claude Code and Claude.ai, I fail to see what this could offer unless they leverage a model that is more creative and unique by default (you can not prompt/context/harness engineer creativity believe me I've tried).- Design is a lot more than just UI. Tools like this ignore so many other important aspects like: motion, typography, images, weight, whitespace, sound, feel.

[gpt5] id=47807141
> The best design is original, groundbreaking and often counterintuitiveDesigning a user inteface involves thousands of small decisions. When trading off pros/cons for each of these decisions, in 99% of the cases, the right answer is ‘optimize familiarity.That’s why Android and iOS look the same, and why the small differences between them are where contention happen.If you adopt existing patterns, your users would be instantly familiar with your app, and the design will not get in their way.

[rTX5CMRXIfFG] id=47811079
> someone, once, deviated hard enough that their deviation became the new familiarThat’s not necessarily what happened though. Apple innovated not out of sheer daring but because they also had the best metaphysical paradigm for GUIs that people could also just intuitively grasp. There was a structural correctness to their approach, underlying all the  things that we find visually appealing. In the beginning, Google dared and deviated hard from Apple’s design language to establish their own unique identity, but anyone who’s working in the mobile space would Have noticed that Android coalesced into roughly the same patterns over time because of that structural correctness.

[Sir_Twist] id=47807627
I could see there being an 80/20-style argument for this sort of tool being used for more generic usecases, with "good designers" using Figma et al. for programs where the UI itself is a selling point.

[ctoth] id=47807525
This ... This is simply not true. I use a screen reader. I am using it right now. I can confirm that AI-generated code, by default, is far, far more accessible, cares far more about keyboard nav, about DOM order, about using the right semantic HTML, about the things that I care about than your average human-designed slop.And no, it doesn't just add ARIA to everything as is so typical by poor practitioners.

[ossa-ma] id=47807676
I think we're arguing two different points. You're arguing about implementation, AI is great at this given the existing defaults and the right prompting. AI was trained on 30+ years of accessibility standards that a minority of great humans fought to establish as a familiar practice.I'm arguing about invention. It is extremely unlikely that AI will be the one to invent the next accessibility paradigm, because that requires deviating from the training distribution, which it CAN'T DO.I'm also arguing that this homogeneity in design will lead to an atrophy in inventive, unique and original thinking.

[jayd16] id=47807253
You could have said the same thing about powerpoint vs high quality marketing departments. The "pros don't want this" argument doesn't really hold weight.This is for non-designers to crank out slop with less effort.  They can still be swayed by all the shiny knobs to feel in control.

[vehemenz] id=47811370
What do you mean by “slop?” This word is thrown around a lot for relatively competent outputs. It’s not 2023 anymore.

[recitedropper] id=47807275
Plus: So much of excellent user interface design is done through iterating on feedback from live humans testing it with their human sensory system.Until we have embodied AI's with eyes and hands that provide good enough approximations, the aspect of design bottlenecked on human experience will stay bottlenecked.

[cjf101] id=47808020
I hate to hand anything to Generative AI tools, butWhile Great design breaks the mould, Very Good design is about surfacing the most expected outcomes for any action which reduces friction and lets people get work done. And this generation of Generative tools is very good at identifying the most common/most expected response to a prompt.

[dayvid] id=47808294
This is a great bridge between non-designers with taste and designers who can't fully technically implement their solutions (or want to more rapidly prototype their solutions). Well done AI implementation is like cosmetic surgery. The trashiest implementations you can tell immediately and the more tasteful ones are subtle

[docmars] id=47811172
I agree somewhat, there's a common language for building products that most people understand and expect.Innovation comes from the ways people differentiate, without straying too far from the tried-and-true patterns. It's the tiny decisions that situate UI elements and yes, reinvent the wheel sometimes, that can tip users over to whatever you're building because you did it better, or in a way "most" (the average) never thought of.If people aren't creative in how it works, then really they're all just making the same, boring products, without truly competing against anyone in a meaningful way in the problem space. Visual appeal isn't a sole differentiator.

[ngoquocdat] id=47815565
Have same issue, it redirect to https://claude.ai/login?returnTo=%2Fdesign then back and redirect to https://claude.ai/login?returnTo=%2Fdesign again, looping...

[jansan] id=47807136
Well, after having high expectations from watching the intro the actual result of a simple prompt "Bear on a bicycle" is very underwhelming.Maybe AI is not good at everything, yet.

[addandsubtract] id=47809534
Developers (and designers) need to be involved in the prompting phase. Handing off half-assed designs and code is just a recipe for disaster.

[mvdtnz] id=47809331
This is like claiming that Claude Code will siphon users away from their editors.Just like with code, AI will give you something to start with, but it's still going to require tweaking and manual input.

[simplyluke] id=47808300
I'm much closer to your persona than a professional designer. 5 years ago if I was going to spin up a landing page for a side project I was probably getting something mediocre together with bootstrap or material UI. Today I'd probably get something marginally better together with a tool like this. In both scenarios I'd end up with an undifferentiated but acceptable end state.I've never paid for a figma seat. A couple of employers have so that I can collaborate with designers in the product, but I don't think this changes that.In an era where it's cheaper and more common to end up at that undifferentiated state, the ability for companies to make their products go above and beyond it is more valuable, not less.I see this across the board with AI. It lowers the bar to get to passable, but as slop fills the internet we're already seeing people place more value in good products, good writing, good art, thoughtful code architecture, etc. Everyone and their cousin's uber driver is vibe coding a SaaS startup no one's going to pay for right now.

[EMM_386] id=47809415
> Tools like Figma are for an era (and persona) who still wants to have all the various knobs and dials to dial in exactly what they wantThe Anthropic video on that page at 0:53 literally shows them clicking a "knobs" button and adjusting the pixel CSS value.I know it's not exactly the same ... but it has that functionality to a degree.

[consumer451] id=47811682
> But then again I was never a "designer" – more a builder.Same here. I work in Claude Code all day long on slightly complex b2b apps, and the builder MVP for what I want to do with Claude.ai, to work on ideas is far simpler.I just want to be able to create a React artifact prototype on claude.ai, then share it privately with a stakeholder (internal or external.) I want to allow those users to prompt changes, then see their changes in the artifact.The bespoke design is not what I am really worried about at this phase. For b2b prototype stuff, claude.ai already does an excellent job with just a bit of project-specific prompting.Why is this shared artifact building not yet doable? This seems "so simple." Yes, maybe some shared artifact specific git to allow version control is required, but is my ask really that hard, or unique?

[docmars] id=47811083
Hard disagree. There's more to UX than pushing pixels around. Usability, accessibility, and capturing the broader customer experience at 40,000 ft isn't a trivial process when you're designing a large product (or suite of products) especially.These areas obviously tie into engineering very closely, but the thinking that goes into them happens at the design stage, at a lower cost than starting with engineering. AI models suck at getting every facet of this process right, because designers are achieving a balance between branding, usability, standards, taste, and differentiation -- the exact opposite of a model trained to reach for the most average outputs.

[docmars] id=47811095
I'm not sure they don't care anymore, as much as they experienced the same pressure every company faced when AI went mainstream.Had they not included support for it, where would they be now? I'd wager a critical mass would be screeching to High Heaven for integrations, seeing as a Figma document is effectively a config file that can be translated to real code.

[gck1] id=47811830
My SO is a UX designer and uses Figma. She wanted to try out Claude integration there, but was frustrated by limitations - like why she can't export interactive elements to Figma file format so that they can be edited further.So I helped her look into it and I was shocked to find out that it just a react slop generator, not a Figma file generator. And extremely limited at that, too.Who is Figma targeting with this exactly? Developers, who are interested in react apps will simply use claude code, and UX designers don't really care for react apps.

[democracy] id=47813164
100% this, Figma is more than just a "design" tool. Same as jira is not just a crud app for tasks. It is integrated in pipelines, people's expertise, CVs and CTO's minds. And to bet on AI company building a competitor to Figma - good luck with that. Just a pilot project for PR, nothing more than that. Sora 2.0 basically.

[satvikpendem] id=47810453
I too use Stitch, seems like not many have heard of it. Stitch also asks good questions, do you have any examples of both side by side with the same prompt or idea?

[DaiPlusPlus] id=47812388
Yes; more depression and anxiety about an uncertain future.The SWE people I know at SW companies now heavily using these agents complain to me how their workday is nothing but code-reviews of the agents output and tedious prompting to prod it back into line; they say they don’t get to actually write code until they get home to work on their personal projects.3 years ago I never would have believed this capability was possible; I’ve since adjusted my expectations to now assume that in another 3 years the models/agents will have improved enough to reduce the amount of code-review required, leaving us with precious little else to do for our shareholders, or the opposite: they don’t improve and we’re stuck doing thankless PR reviews until the end.Please tell me where and how in this future I’m supposed to find satisfaction and pride in my work when what-gets-produced isn’t my own work anymore?

[docmars] id=47811177
Judging by Anthropic's track record for sloppy, buggy software, I can't see this taking off quite as well as people might think, when compared to Figma and its captive customer base.Figma actually put the work in to make a great product that performs well and offers anything you could imagine to design just about anything you need, with AI integrations and deep manual editing to sweat the details.

[brikym] id=47813508
As far as I can tell these tools have quite a low ceiling. Great to start off with but but at some point I just find it easier to express myself with bezier curve handles than prompting. Canva, and Stitch (and maybe Claude Design) don't go that far.

[firasd] id=47807243
This seems a bit fiddly... I gave it the ChatGPT iframe html for my (not yet released) Liveclip MCP server that's like tables [https://x.com/firasd/status/2039926453408776649]. And I had this chat in the sidebar and it popped up some questions in a form> do you see our current htmlHi-fi design
Interactive prototype
html> do you see our current htmlHi-fi design
Interactive prototype
html●  Claude
Yes — I can see your html/ folder. It has 7 files:files-list.html
math-result.html
rows-view.html
table-view.html
text-editor-doc-view.html
trending-topics.html
unique-result.html
Want me to open them up and take a look at what's in there? And what would you like to do — polish them, turn them into an interactive prototype, build something new on top, or something else?> yeah in table view i'm thinking about how to deal with cells that may be big. i guess we want to do something different than excel or sheets in that auto expand rows with cells that contain big values. we can show like the first -- what does twitter show, 280? so we can show 280 chars and then [...]● Let me take a look at the current table view to understand what we're working with.Got it — I see the current table view. Right now every cell is clamped to max-width:220px with white-space:nowrap and text-overflow:ellipsis, so long values just get cut off at whatever ~30 chars fits the column. You're thinking about the opposite end: what if a cell genuinely holds 2,000 chars of text? Neither pure clip nor Excel-style row expansion is quite right.Before I start sketching, a few quick questions so I don't guess wrong:> Questions answered:
- truncation_threshold: ~280 chars (new tweet)
- expansion_ux: nothing right now -- it's not interactive
- row_height_policy: Grow freely like Notion/Airtable
- content_types: Not sure yet
- indicator_style: [...] at the end of the text
- newlines: Render them (row grows)
- copy_affordance: no interaction right now
- column_width: Fixed width, all columns equal
- variation_count: 2 variations
- aesthetic_direction: Same bones, but let you push it a bit● Got it — so: non-interactive, rows can grow freely, 280-char cap with [...], newlines render, same bones but push it a bit, 2 variations. Let me sketch this out.Set up variations file with two table treatments
V1: Notion/Airtable-style free-grow with [...] cap
V2: pushed aesthetic variant
Wire both to the same sample data w/ long cells
Let me peek at a couple of the sibling files so the variations stay in-family with the rest of the widget set.Good — now I have the visual family. The shared vocabulary across widgets:#f5f5f3 page, #fff card, #d0d0cc borders, #f0f0ec headers
System font, 12–14px
Subtle alternating row tints, no drop shadows, flat corners
Color used sparingly; #666 for secondary text
My plan for the two variations (side-by-side in a canvas so you can compare on the same rows):V1 — "Notion-ish, stay in family"Keep current palette, borders, zebra striping
Rows grow vertically as needed; white-space: pre-wrap so newlines render
Cap each cell at 280 chars; if longer, slice to 280 + […] inline
Same fixed column widths, everything else identical
V2 — "Same bones, pushed"Tightens the grid (hairline borders instead of panels, more whitespace, denser typography)
Column rail with sticky row numbers
Soft fade on the bottom of ultra-tall cells instead of mid-text […] when content is really long (hybrid: char cap + visual)
Monospaced tabular digits for row numbers; type column ⌾ / ▤ markers subtly hinting content type; column width slightly wider for breathing room
Let me build it.Now let me build the two variations. I'll set up realistic sample data with a mix of short values, tweet-length values, long-long values, and ones with newlines, so the behaviors are visible.Now the two table components.Clean. Two variations on the canvas, both rendering the same 7 rows so you can compare directly:V1 — in-family. Your current widget, with white-space: pre-wrap so rows grow, newlines render, and a soft grey […] appended when a cell goes past 280 chars. Row 3's summary (double-long prose) and row 4's URL show the cap.
V2 — same bones, pushed. Hairline borders instead of filled header panels, monospaced tabular row gutter, column letters as uppercased small-caps above the header names row, tighter typographic rhythm, cells > 280 → […] legend in the footer. Row 7 shows how newlines render naturally.
Both slice at the nearest word boundary when one is within ~40 chars of the 280 cap, otherwise hard-cut — so […] never lands mid-word.A couple of things worth calling out, not changed:280 is pretty generous when a row has multiple long cells side-by-side — row 3 is ~2 cells × 280 = a very tall row. If that ends up being painful in real usage, dropping to ~180 or adding a per-row max-height with fade might be worth a follow-up.
Neither variation is interactive per your answer; there's no click-to-expand, hover, or copy. Easy to bolt on later.
Fork verifier agent
Both variations are live on the canvas. Let me know which direction feels right and I'll fold it back into html/table-view.html."
-----It's basically similar to their Artifacts system in a harness I guess

[jayd16] id=47807297
So how much of this is fully generated vs AI running through all the knobs on template widgets?Is that globe made from whole cloth or is there a bespoke "telecom globe" widget that it dropped in?  Could I ask for mock up of molecules with the same fidelity of knobs, down to nucleus size and such?

[mpeg] id=47807759
Depends of what you prompt it... if you tell it to use react and shadcn, it will use that.

[martinald] id=47807406
Interesting! I wrote this approach up (more or less - extract design system -> make templates -> export) some time ago and I've found it unbelievably powerful: https://martinalderson.com/posts/how-to-make-great-looking-c....I use it all day every day with Claude Code. I sometimes wonder past code if this has had the biggest impact on my day to day productivity, either having to make do with semi-bad looking reports or have a designer design them (which is slow).Sort of feel sorry for Figma in a way though, given all the "partnerships" (highlighting their MCPs) and case studies they've done with Anthropic and then they release this. I note there isn't a testimonial from them this time.I'm surprised how poorly Figma have used "AI" in general - given they were the "gold standard" in taking emerging technologies (WASM etc) and making an incredible product. The Figma Make thing was incredibly underwhelming, I managed to extract the system prompt out and it's basically just Gemini 3 Pro with a design prompt. Perhaps the original team has left?They are extremely exposed imo. While all the UI/UX designers will continue using it for the forseeable, I strongly suspect a lot of their (A/M)RR was coming from extra seats for PMs, developers, etc to view and export and do commenting on the files - not core designer usage. I think a lot of this just won't happen on Figma as much.

[coffeebeqn] id=47807752
I think you hit the nail on the head - I bet Adobe and Figma get most of their sold seats from people who don’t really need the full tool and are basically just using it as a viewer and to make very small adjustments or notes

[young_mete] id=47807527
Will be taking this for a spin imminently. What seems to be very unique here vs other canvas tools are the generative UI controls.If you’re confused about why everyone is shipping their own canvas tool - this is what I wrote when I reviewed Stitch from Google in my newsletter:“every SOTA (State-of-the-Art) model can already do this. Give it a prompt, it'll spit out an HTML design. Ask for 10 responsive variations, you'll get them. Stitch is a Ul and context harness on top of Gemini, in the same way Claude Code is a harness on top of Claude's models. This means every Al lab will likely ship their own version, and they'll all interoperate because at the end of the day it's all HTML and markdown.”More generally, this is a competition of where the product development work starts and lives. The business value will accrue to those who become a destination, not a plugin.AI can now power a new sort of tool that supports the entire process (not just coding or just design). So there’s no reason for Anthropic or any other lab to give that up to another tool.

[quotemstr] id=47807534
Postmodernists are annoying because they are right about design. "Taste", aesthetics, design, vibes they're all as socially-constructed and post-truth as that annoying sophomore says everything is. The world is design is an isekai manga in which Derrida's delusions are the rules of physics. It's weird.Part of this weirdness is the continual relativism of design. A taste-meme is good or cringe only relative to the prevailing social environment, never itself. An AI can never do "design", properly understood, because design is the work done by a reluctance motor, spinning endlessly in a Sysphean quest to align itself with a moving magnetic field and producing torque by side effect.All efforts like this can do is capture the field alignment at an instant in time. It cannot do work. It cannot produce motion, not as long as its weights are as fixed as the field lines of a neodymium magnet. The instant AI design is good, it becomes bad through the act of becoming good.Producing work through motion of taste may be one of the last human endeavors to be absorbed.

[LetsGetTechnicl] id=47807581
Oh great more slop

[decidu0us9034] id=47809096
I think a big part of the reason AI is so divisive and only declining in popularity, is because much of the discourse is shaped by mid to senior career SWEs who fantasize about putting everyone who's not a mid to senior career SWE out of work. People who want to replace everything we like with streamlined slop and want everyone we love struggling to get by. Everyone is inessential except the guy who just sits there telling Claude "can confirm, looks good ship it" who of course isn't deserving of even a paycut

[htrp] id=47807706
Reminder that Claude's own AI design skill (which is probably incorporated directly into this product) says things like>NEVER use generic AI-generated aesthetics like overused font families (Inter, Roboto, Arial, system fonts), cliched color schemes (particularly purple gradients on white backgrounds), predictable layouts and component patterns, and cookie-cutter design that lacks context-specific character.> Interpret creatively and make unexpected choices that feel genuinely designed for the context. No design should be the same. Vary between light and dark themes, different fonts, different aesthetics. NEVER converge on common choices (Space Grotesk, for example) across generations.[1] https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code/blob/main/plugins/...

[throwaway041207] id=47808755
Agree. I'm building a software factory at my job right now that leverages Claude Code. It seems like almost daily Anthropic is releasing new products or features on existing products that seem to overlap with the factory I'm building. I still think my project provides a more coherent workflow from a SDLC standpoint, bringing an idea to a ticket, to a prompt, to a plan, and finally coding and creating a PR, but it definitely feels like Anthropic is heading in that direction as well. It'll be interesting if they eventually bring all of this together into a single uber tool.

[3sdfs] id=47808874
Ultimately OAI and ANthropic are destined to crash and burn - they have gambled a lot on LLM's paving the way toward accelerated research, discovery etc etc. But its not happened and its not happening - the only 'large' revenue stream they have all converged on is selling tokens in relation to software production. Which is pretty anti-climatic given all the hyping.Keeping the hype alive through to IPO is critical now.

[JulienZammit] id=47825615
Been watching the same pattern. The weekly shipping cadence is impressive but I'm skeptical these products get loved in 2 years. Claude Code gets the focus because it drives revenue. Everything else feels like option value for the IPO narrative. Kind of makes me want to build on the API directly rather than on any specific product surface.

[Growtika] id=47808004
For my agency this won't replace Figma or designers. It's just a really useful tool to express yourself and communicate intent.Before these tools, when a client wanted a specific section built, we'd spend hours hunting references across the web. The output always ended up feeling like a mesh of 2-3 sites, never fully unique. Then we'd burn more time explaining the intent to the client's designers and devs, usually with multiple rounds because words don't convey layout well.Now we throw a quick mockup together in Claude or Lovable and send it. The designer gets the idea in 30 seconds instead of a 45-minute call, then pushes it further with their own taste and the client's branding.It's not replacing designers. Most clients don't know what they want until they see it. These tools collapse that feedback loop from weeks to minutes, so the designer actually spends their time on the parts that need human taste, not on decoding a vague brief.

[jameslk] id=47812199
I have seen this as well, except the UI ends up all looking similar, because the harness prompt and training data doesn’t change muchThe average becomes the same shade of gray. Familiarity breeds contempt. New types of design will emerge that are expensive to copy, because differentiation drives competition

[bdangubic] id=47812679
I’d actually prefer if all of them looked and worked the same, especially useful if you have elderly family members you need to teach how to use app for XYZ. all government websites (especially functional ones that citizens use to do something on) for instance should be exactly the same

[d0gsg0w00f] id=47812503
That's how I see most of the system design capabilities of Opus. I've been an engineer for 15 years. It's so nice to describe what you want, it gets you in the ballpark, and you can refine and tweak to get it just right. Sometimes it's fun to have it design crazy stuff so you can play out a crazy idea without wasting too much time. I can see how it could easily translate to the visual design space.Now, if I could only get a model to draw arch diagrams....

[twobitshifter] id=47812523
1. This workflow is beneficial for a per design pricing model not hourly.2. Long term you can expect the minimum bar for aesthetically pleasing design to be raised and there to be overall less demand for human produced generic design.3. This will mean all designers get pushed into the same corner or complex, unique, uninferable design and trying to fight it out.

[democracy] id=47813154
As if designers spend most of their time actually "designing". Same flaw of thinking with programmers and AI replacing their jobs. As if the main problem (and a major time waster) is actually programming and not dealing with a million of other things.

[wiz21c] id=47814418
The job of the programmer/Designer will be to answer questions about what the program can do/not do and tweak it outside of Claude's abilities. To be able to answer those questions (like: can we do this ? will it fail under pressure ? etc) requires a deep understanding of the programs which you only have if you actually build them (with or without AI).So, less jobs for sure, but not like 50% less jobs.

[ehnto] id=47813408
I think the long term idea is that AI becomes continuous in the sense that it behaves like a regular employee, not something you have to prompt. So at a mid sized company say 100 "entities", the CEO has directors still, they have managers, but the managers are managing AI agents not humans.But I don't think that's how it plays out. I think you still need to imbue talent, skills and direction into these tools and I don't see management, who did not have the skills initially, being able to do that task across multiple business aspects and agents simultaneously.I think for now and perhaps until/if AGI, the sweet spot is having skilled individuals with experience using the tools to known good results. You still can't really delegate to the tools, you have to work with them. The benefit to management that a human has is they can delegate to a human, even when they completely lack the skillset they are delegating.

[josefrichter] id=47813915
I’m not saying it will replace all designers immediately. But same as with developers: it may kill  many junior positions quite quick. That’s why I’m asking the guy to share his experience 3 months from now.

[sweetheart] id=47808372
I'm in the same boat. Tailwind always seemed insane to me, even after really giving it the benefit of the doubt and trying it out. I use it now only because its so easy for the LLMs to use, so I don't need to actually interface with it at all.

[shrinks99] id=47809184
It compiles almost instantly which makes this visual design by Claude instruction viable.  That alone is pretty neat.It can't render all your math in exactly the same way.  If you need it to do that, it may not be for you.

[pembrook] id=47808282
I disagree with most of the takes here. The reason this will fail has nothing to do with design, designers, or taste.This will fail because it's already a forgotten side project within anthropic, and anthropic also has pretty bad product DNA as a company. Their headcount is already too large and the culture is already set. They grew revenue so fast they speedran the stage at which you could build software product chops into the company culture (think Google circa 2008 vs. Google circa 2018).They should focus on what they're good at: the actual AI models and B2B sales. Let OpenAI play early Google and churn through 100 different consumer product experiences to see what sticks, they're better positioned for it anyways.

[nate8bit] id=47808447
I think it's because it's non-deterministic too. You can't iteratively improve design the same way you can code.

[whywhywhywhy] id=47808496
ultimately if it’s so close to the finished product you may as well just do it in cursor rather than have an extra step.The design problem to solve post-ai isn’t this it’s how the space for thinking fits into all this, getting to the end result slower so human ideation can play out. This is just optimized for the first generic output + tweaks.

[mathisfun123] id=47808888
> What a sad take.just repeating the same mistake as op: sadness/happiness is completely outside the scope here. these are aspects of a job - "design" explicitly relates to products not art. and wondering about the sadness/happiness of a job is like wondering about the marketability of a piece of art - it's completely besides the point!

[moregrist] id=47808964
> your labor is always actively being transformed into a product sold on a market. there are no "marvelous human experiences", there is only production and consumption.The first time I used Mac OS/X, circa 2004-2005, I was blown away by the design and how they managed to expose the power of the underlying Unix-ish kernel without making it hurt for people who didn't want that experience.  My SO couldn't have cared less about Terminal.app, but loved the UI.  I also loved the UI and appreciated how they took the time to integrate cli tools with it.I would say it was a marvelous human experience _for me_.Sure it was the Apple engineers' and designers' labor transformed into a product, but it was a fucking great product and something that I'm sure those teams were very proud of.  The same was true with the the iPod and the iPhone.I work on niche products, so I've never done something as widely appreciated as those examples, but on the products I've worked on, I can easily say that I really enjoy making things that other people want to use, even if it's just an internal tool.  I also enjoy getting paid for my labor.  I've found that this is often a win-win situation.Work doesn't have to be exploitive.  Products don't have to exploit their users.Viewing everything through the lens of production and consumption is like viewing the whole world as a big constraint optimization problem: (1) you end up torturing the meaning of words to fit your preconceived ideas, and (2) by doing so you miss hearing what other people are saying.

[mathisfun123] id=47809010
> Sure it was the Apple engineers' and designers' labor transformed into a product, but it was a fucking great product and something that I'm sure those teams were very proud of. The same was true with the the iPod and the iPhone....> Work doesn't have to be exploitive. Products don't have to exploit their users.bruh do people have any idea what they're writing as they write it? you're talking about "work doesn't have to be [exploitative]" in the same breath as Apple which is the third largest market cap company in the world and who's well known for exploiting child labor to produce its products. like has this comment "jumped the shark"?> Viewing everything through the lens of production and consumptioni don't view everything through any lens - i view work through the lens of work (and therefore production/consumption). i very clearly delineated between this lens and at least one other lens (art).

[nightski] id=47809791
I find it a lot more useful to dive into bugs involving multiple layers and versions of 3rd party dependencies.  Deep issues where when I see the answer I completely understand what it did to find it and what the problem was (so in essence I wouldn't of learned anything diving deep into the issue), but it was able to do so in a much more efficient fashion than me referencing code across multiple commits on github, docs, etc...This allows me to focus my attention on important learning endeavors, things I actually want to learn and are not forced to simply because a vendor was sloppy and introduced a bug in v3.4.1.3.LLMS excel when you can give them a lot of relevant context and they behave like an intelligent search function.

[skydhash] id=47810746
I agree with your definition of programming (and I’ve been saying the same thing here), but> It's annoying when a distracting and unessential detail derails this conversationthere is no such details.The model (the program) and the simulation (the process) are intrinsically linked as the latter is what gives the former its semantic. The simulation apparatus may be noisy (when it’s own model blends into our own), but corrective and transformative models exists (abstraction).> No one argues that we should throw away type checking,…That’s not a good comparison. Type checking helps with cognitive load in verifying correctness, but it does increase it, when you’re not sure of the final shape of the solution. It’s a bit like Pen vs Pencil in drawing. Pen is more durable and cleaner, while Pencil feels more adventurous.As long as you can pattern match to get a solution, LLM can help you, but that does requires having encountered the pattern before to describe it. It can remove tediousness, but any creative usage is problematic as it has no restraints.

[lo_zamoyski] id=47825106
> there is no such details.Qua formal system, yes, but this is a pedantic point as the aim - the what - of a system is more important than the how. This distinction makes the distinction between domain-relevant features and implementation details more conspicuous. If I wish to predict the relative positions of the objects of our solar system, then in relation to that end and that domain concern, it matters not whether the underlying model assumes a geocentric or heliocentric stance in its model (that tacitly is the deeper value of Copernicus's work; he didn't vindicate heliocentrism, he showed that a heliocentric model is just as explanatory and preserves appearances equally well, and I would say that this mathematical and even philosophical stance toward scientific modeling is the real Copernican revolution, not all the later pamphleteer mythology).Of course, in relation to other ends and contexts, what were implementation details in one case become the domain in the other. If you are, say, aiming for model simplicity, then you might prefer heliocentrism over geocentrism with all its baroque explanatory or predictive devices.The underlying implementation is, from a design point-of-view, virtually within the composite. The implementation model is not of equal rank and importance as the domain model, even if the former constrains the latter. (It's also why we talk about rabbit-holing; we can get distracted from our domain-specific aim, but distraction presupposes a distinction between domain-specific aim and something that isn't.) When woodworking, we aren't talking about quantum mechanical phenomena in the wood, because while you cannot separate the wood from the quantum mechanical phenomena as a factual matter - distinction is not separation - the quantum is virtual, not actual with respect to the wood, and it is irrelevant within the domain concerning the woodworker.So, if there is a bug in a library, that is, in some sense, a distraction from our domain. LLMs can help keep us on task, because our abstractions don't care how they're implemented as long as they work and work the way we want. This can actually encourage clearer thinking. Category mistakes occur in part because of a failure to maintain clear domain distinctions.> That’s not a good comparison. Type checking [...]It reduces cognitive load vis-a-vis understanding code. When I want to understand a function in a dynamic language, I often have to drill down into composing functions, or look at callers, e.g., in test cases to build up a bunch of constraints in my mind about what the domain and codomain is. (This can become increasingly difficult when the dynamic language has some form of generics, because if you care about the concrete type/class in some case, you need even more information.)This cognitive load distracts us from the domain. The domain is effectively blurred without types. Usually, modeling something using types first actually liberates us, because it encourages clearer thinking upfront about the what instead of jumping right into how. (I don't pretend that types never increase certain kinds of burdens, at least in the short term, but I am talking about a specific affordance. In any case, LLMs play very nicely with statically-typed languages, and so this actually reduces one of the argued benefits of dynamic languages as ostensibly better at prototyping.)> As long as you can pattern match to get a solution [...]Indeed, and that's the point. LLMs work so well precisely, because our abstractions suck. We have lot of boilerplate and repetitive plumbing that is time-consuming and tedious and pulls us away from the domain. Years of programming research and programming practice has not resolved this problem, which suggests that such abstractions are either impractical or unattainable. (The problem is related to the philosophical question whether you can formalize all of reality, which you cannot, and certainly not under one formal system.)I don't claim that LLMs don't have drawbacks or tradeoffs, or require new methodologies to operate. My stance is a moderate one.

[xienze] id=47811386
> Yes but that’s why you ask it to teach you what it just did.Are you really going to do that though? The whole point of using AI for coding is to crank shit out as fast as possible. If you’re gonna stop and try to “learn” everything, why not take that approach to begin with? You’re fooling yourself if you think “ok, give me the answer first then teach me” is the same as learning and being able to figure out the answer yourself.

[leptons] id=47809965
I find it intellectually exhausting to describe to a machine what I want, when I could build something better in the same amount of time, and it isn't for lack of understanding how the LLM works.It takes a lot of cajoling to get an LLM to produce a result I want to use. It takes no cajoling for me to do it myself.The only time "AI" helps is in domains that I am unfamiliar with, and even then it's more miss than hit.

[skydhash] id=47810834
> I find it intellectually exhausting to describe to a machine what I want, when I could build something better in the same amount of time, and it isn't for lack of understanding how the LLM works.I don’t even bother. Most of my use cases have been when I’m sure I’ve done the same type of work before (tests, crud query,…). I describe the structure of the code and let it replicate the pattern.For any fundamental alteration, I bring out my vim/emacs-fu. But after a while, you start to have good abstractions, and you spend your time more on thinking than on coding (most solutions are a few lines of codes).

[vehemenz] id=47810961
My experience is mostly the opposite. Provided the right context and prompt, CC will generally produce code, even in domains I know, 10-20x faster.Quality is a different issue, sure.

[lo_zamoyski] id=47809983
> I have more time for it because I am not spending nearly as much time tracking down stupid issues.It is a truism that the majority of effort and time a software dev spends is allocated toward boilerplate, plumbing, and other tedious and intellectually uninteresting drudgery. LLMs can alleviate much of that, and if used wisely, function as a tool for aiding the understanding of principles, which is ultimately what knowledge concerns, and not absorbing the mind in ephemeral and essentially arbitrary fluff. In fact, the occupation hazard is that you'll become so absorbed in some bit of minutia, you'll forget the context you were operating in. You'll forget what the point of it all was.Life is short. While knowing how to calculate mentally and/or with pen and paper is good for mastering principles and basic facility (the same is true of programming, btw), no one is clamoring to go back to the days before the calculator. There's a reason physicists would outsource the numerical bullshit to teams of human computers.

[pilgrim0] id=47809809
The argument is not that only designers can design, nor that everyone should design like a designer. It’s to not confuse shopping for or generating generic solutions with the activity of problem solving. Per Alexander, trivial problems, those that can be solved without balancing interactions between conflicting requirements, are not design problems. So, don’t worry and just pick what you need and like!

[airstrike] id=47815795
Your point is maybe 25% of the original, so no, it's not just a really verbose way to say the same thing.In fact, there's a palpable irony in your decision to make that comment, which only reinforces the OP.

[TeMPOraL] id=47809729
> You used to have to either care enough to do the design yourself or find someone who cared and specialized in that to do it for you.You think most UI/UX designers, or the artists creating slop for content marketing spam factories for the past decades, cared? Some, maybe. Most probably had higher ambitions, but are doing what actually pays their bills.It's similar to software developers. Most of those being paid to code couldn't care less, they're in there for the fat paycheck; everyone else mostly complains the work is boring or dumb (or worse), but once you have those skills, it makes no economic sense to switch careers (unless, of course, you're into management, or into playing the entrepreneurship roulette).

[idle_zealot] id=47809921
I think the more you industrialize a process, the more those involved become cogs (or get replaced with actual or metaphorical cogs in a machine). This is fine, even desirable, for anything we can produce en masse and apply quality control to. I do not mind that my rivets and screws are not artisanal. We figured out how to make a useful and reliable widget and can churn them out on an industrial scale no problem. I do not see the value in doing the same with software. We already get mass-production for free because the product is bytes. Why are we industrializing the process of making millions of variations of the same thing? Surely the effort would be better spent finding the "screw" of software, perfecting it, and making it trivial for users to accomplish whatever task they want without having to generate the gaps between with untested code. I want modularity and better design, not automated design.

[switchbak] id=47810018
Man so much of this thread is full of such high minded philosophizing, it's like we're debating wine instead of talking about interfaces for doing things.Like, maybe I just want to make an interface to configure my homemade espresso dohickey, do I have to wear a turtleneck and read Christopher Alexander now? I just wanted a couple buttons and some sliders.We don't all have to be experts in everything, some people just need a means to an end, and that's ok. I won't like the wave of slop that's coming, but the antidote certainly isn't this.

[SiempreViernes] id=47810397
Why do you want sliders when a config file would do the same just fine?It's true that design theory writing is annoyingly verbose and intangible, but that doesn't make it wrong. Give someone a concrete language spec and they will not really know how it feels to use the language, and even once they do experience its use they will not be able to explain that feeling using the language spec. Invariably the language will tend to become intangible and likely very verbose.But to answer your question: no, it's of course perfectly serviceable to just copy the interface others have created, and if the needs aren't exactly the same you can just put up with the inevitable discomfort from where the original doesn't translate into the copy.

[AIorNot] id=47808993
Creativity is a very big part of design, these Gen AI tools allow for stepping through a lot of variations and creative ideas very quickly, even creating working artifacts and protoypes on the fly and iterating rapidlyThis speed and variation wins for me. But yes without a designers eye laziness can get lost in slop design too..To me the value of Gen Ai is an accelerant (not slop factory) for ideation and solutions not a replacement of the human owning the process.. but laziness ususally wins

[yard2010] id=47809439
Important take. The same applies to software 1:1

[pilgrim0] id=47810187
There’s no conflict here. Using a tool to automate what you have validated to be the trivial parts of a production process is the proper use of the tool. Professional designers also use this bias. For instance, I might recognize that creating a custom font or illustration is not core to my solution, so I can employ an off the shelf font or illustration and focus, say, in the written content. Same principle. The problem is most people won’t even acknowledge or validate the essential aspects of the solution and just iterate mindlessly.

[samrus] id=47814092
The tool just allows them to synthesize an implementation, but if its designed badly then it will fail and they will have to get better at design anyway. I dont see how that itself is the problem. The tractor didnt make farmers worse at farming even if they lost the strength to work an old school plowI think the challenge will be everything else the person will be doing. Will this person also try to coding? And financial management? And marketing? And operational planning? Just because there are tools out there for them to synthesize implementations of that. If so then they wont be able to get good at any of those. But i think the backwards pressure from failing at those things will bring it back to a stable equilibrium where you have specialists who are good at the abstract ideas of their field leveraging these things as a new abstraction layer of work, analogous to the compilerI think itll be fine

[eecc] id=47814206
Well well well, that was nice read thanks!And if it’s LLM the prompt or the rework were very good because I really liked the flow and clarity. That, or you’re a really good writer ;)

[orbital-decay] id=47808704
Until the large model output variety/mode collapse is solved, tools like this one will be generating monotonous slop. Very few people using it will be specifying each detail of what they want.

[taytus] id=47808847
Anthropic is making the exact same mistake OpenAI did: lack of focus. Release, release, release, all good apps, all full of bugs. This is a massive mess and people aren't talking enough about how bad all of this is.

[hkpack] id=47809149
If you are not a software engineer you can judge code the same way as you can judge design while not being a designer.It is that in one case it is obvious for you that you don’t understand what you are looking at, and in another, for some reason, it is not.

[raviisoccupied] id=47809583
>If you are not a software engineer you can judge code the same way as you can judge design while not being a designer.Very true.

[stopachka] id=47810943
Here's a 2-line prompt that gives Claude Design a backend:```----To get your credentials and learn about InstantDB, fetch this URL:https://instantdb.com/llm-rules/create-app/AGENTS.md```Every cURL request to AGENTS.md spins up a new backend and splices in the credentials.I used it to build this multiplayer pelican game:https://349b7470-3747-49e7-8ece-960a45b0b2da.claudeuserconte...Disclaimer: I am the founder of InstantDB

[kingofbits] id=47809285
Hmm.. i don't like prompting my way to fix pixel decisions.Fed it my figma file to it and creating a design system. And yeah, it looks like it, but it's still wayyy off at the same time

[poly2it] id=47809455
I'm not sure if I'm holding it wrong, but at these usage rates, I can hardly see this being useful for designers in their daily work. In two prompts using the Max 20x plan, it consumed 11% of my weekly limit for Claude Design, which is separate from your normal limits. A day of work would exhaust over four weeks of usage. Is this meant for intermittent use only? Lately I've been getting the feeling that Anthropic is forgetting how absurdly much we are already paying for these tools, compared to conventional development tools, or even competing inference providers.

[ayhanfuat] id=47810732
Same for me. It jumped to 11% on the first prompt and now increasing steadily. I think I will hit the limits without seeing a hi-fi version.

[raphman] id=47811918
Yeah. I'm only on the Pro plan and immediately reached my weekly Claude Design quota by having it create a slide template (with much too small text) and three versions of a system dashboard design (rather nice). No iterations.Another thing: I realized how much I hate waiting for Claude to finish its thing. With UI designs, a quick interaction loop between tool and user feels much more important than with code.

[luckylion] id=47815237
11% of $50 -- did you get $5.50 of value out of it? Would a designer have charged you more then $5.50 to create the same?

[rirze] id=47809620
The sites seem to be all of the same format-- with different color palettes as the main offering point here.A little misleading, as I thought they would showcase different types of site design entirely.

[Draiken] id=47809636
Nice video but the expectations vs reality is brutal: provide it with an actual PDF with a design system, wait for 30min and the entire thing is stuck.You talk to it, it consumes "usage" and no design system created.Had a similar experience with their online code sessions.All this slop generated code is so freaking bad. We'll get drowned in so much slop code that at some point only these garbage machines will be able to "work" with it.

[florakel] id=47809968
For me it was the missing piece when working with Claude Code. I am a PM by formation so neither do I know how to design nor do I know how to code but I am pretty good at describing what I want and why. I just played with Claude Design for a while and it made it really easy to explore different solutions, reorganize the interface, adjust little detail with the "comment" function, move buttons around, etc. Then export to Claude code including the design system, and I spend way less time writing a spec and can focus more on corner cases and the ugly details.
2 years ago I still had to hire a freelance designer and a developer for small projects, now for the fraction of the cost I am totally independent and can iterate as much as I want. We always mention that "the design is not unique" or "the software architecture is not clean and the code to verbose" - I get it I managed Series C startup product teams before I got sick of the VC shit show. Now I am working mostly with lifestyle businesses and SMBs that have the ambition to be profitable - and average is good enough for them. They gain access to custom designed software for specific use cases which was completely out of reach for them 3 years ago. Custom solutions meant working with mediocre, overpriced agencies creating "solutions" with Wordpress. Anything I can do with the Claude stack is on higher level at a fraction of the cost. And as long as it works and looks good those business don't give a ** about unique design and scalable software engineering.

[tristanb] id=47810698
My feedback for whatever it's worth as a 25yr design veteran.* Massive token usage, some small tasks burned through $50 of credits and did not offer $50 of value.* Terrible at logo work. Comically bad. This is something that is "hard" so it could add great value if it could deliver.* Repeatedly forgot prior feedback - when iterating it would re-implement prior iterations after being told why we didn't want that result which made for a very frustrating UX.* Prone to adding visual clutter - kept adding extra elements that look "pretty" but add no value to the user.* Seems better at "pretty" vs user focused / UX.* Did not do a good job at using my existing design / UI library* REALLY wanted to start from scratch. Could not be coaxed into designing part of an application, it wanted to redesign the whole thing.

[einrealist] id=47811247
Good for crunching out some prototypes, ideas and getting inspirations I guess. Two prompts - the initial one and one refinement - took about ten minutes and used up 90% of the token budget. I wonder what the real costs are. After the IPO, they will no longer be able to subsidize token costs. The question will then be whether it's still cheap enough just for prototypes, ideas and inspiration.

[anonu] id=47811275
As long as tokens cost less than humans people will pay for them. If you're human you need to differentiate yourself bigly from what will quickly become mainstream AI slop.

[stephencoyner] id=47811323
The labs team absolutely cooked with this. As a designer who's been using Claude Code a lot to make better prototypes, I still go back to mockups for comparing many iterations, collecting precise feedback with comments, and documenting decisions for decks or sharing with other departments like product marketing. This seems to solve for all of these use cases (or at least start to).It's also just a beautiful product. The interaction model, styling and integrations via exporting is all super thoughtful

[lofaszvanitt] id=47811404
Sigh, same old, rusty design.

[Aperocky] id=47811892
Isn't this just going to be AI slop but on a design level?It's not X, it's Y! all over again?

[stingraycharles] id=47811951
I’m quite successful doing UI with a proper design system, variables.css, atoms, molecules and organisms and constantly sticking to that. Claude seems to work well with it.I explore designs in Claude Desktop, and once I’m satisfied, I’ll let Claude desktop handover prompts for Claude Code. Claude Code makes a review harness inside the actual application for each atom, molecule and organism, and I accept each of them one by one.I wonder if this is something similar, but makes the whole process smoother. As someone who’s not particularly good at frontend, I’m quite happy with what all this accomplishes.

[dbg31415] id=47813174
Modern Figma design libraries are one of the best things to happen to product teams in the last 20 years.Reusable components. Shared styles. Auto layout. Variants. Design tokens. So many useful plugins! Interactive prototypes. Dev mode handoff. Versioned libraries. A single source of truth keeping designers, engineers, and PMs speaking the same language.It's fucking bliss when you use it right. And best of all, anyone on the team can build with the legos the designers gave us!Teams finally started treating the design system like infrastructure instead of decoration.Then Figma Make showed up.It generates pages that ignore your components, skip your tokens, and treat every screen like a fresh snowflake. Looks fine in the mockup. Lands like a brick on the dev team. Now every page is bespoke and every handoff is a rebuild. Fucking sucks.We had it all figured out, then we fucked it up.AI was supposed to accelerate momentum. But it just so completely lacks maturity. AI Tools are dragging teams back to 2010, when every page was a Photoshop file (with way too many layers and shitty names for them) and none of the designers can agree on what radius to assign to their buttons.Good design systems are a discipline. If your AI tool doesn't respect the library, it's not a designer. It's an intern with a Molotov cocktail waiting to destroy your productivity.I haven't used Claude Design yet, I'll try it, but I LOVE Figma, and I hate Figma Make. I don't have high hopes for Claude here.

[Unsponsoredio] id=47814490
the real unlock here isn't the design output. it's that non-designers can now have a visual conversation instead of writing a 3 page spec that nobody reads.half the design problems I've seen weren't bad taste. they were bad communication between the person who knew what they wanted and the person who could build it.

[DecoPerson] id=47814587
This isn’t going to replace Figma. It’s going to replace the people who use Figma.My 76yo Dad just used Claude Design to make a simple commercial tenancy/lease management CRUD app. We handed what he built to Claude Code to implement within my existing business tech stack. It perfectly followed my coding & testing playbooks (basically a multi-file CLAUDE.md with prompt & command hooks to evaluate conformance). It works… exactly as my Dad imagined.Now, mind you, my Dad had some outdated UI expectations (he asked Claude Design to style use a Windows 98 aesthetic!), but my point is: we just built a fully-functional, deeply tested, domain-expert-designed app, in less than a day.

[DecoPerson] id=47828743
For us, Claude Design wrote one html file and a bunch of jsx files. What it built was quite functional. We used the “export” button to download the project as a zip file and I placed the contents into a directory in my monorepo. Then I wrote an about 5 paragraph prompt for Claude Code, sent it with bypass permissions (CC is running as a different, non-root user with no LAN network access), and went to bed. The next day, viola, it turned prototype jsx into tsx (+ server-side ts) that mostly conformed with my existing stack.I’ve been trying to find a good way to let my Dad keep tweaking the new version but haven’t so far. For now he continues to work (using CD) on the jsx prototype. I can do another export later and CC could use git diff to see what changed and realise those same changes in the “real” version. But there has to be a better way.

[britannio] id=47815255
12 prompts and my weekly usage on the 5x Max plan is up :(

[mcrowe] id=47820995
They've exposed the system prompt via the network requests. I'll give them the benefit of the doubt and assume that was intentional, and not because the app was blindly vibe coded ;-).Here's the prompt as of around release-time yesterday. You can verify in your own network requests.https://gist.github.com/mcrowe/9da081f52e0740886d39e730852db...

######################### story 47818700: Thoughts and feelings around Claude Design (46 matches)
[esafak] id=47819445
All right, here's a statement: your designers won't even know when the code is wrong. Just because it compiles it doesn't mean it's fine. They lack code judgment in the same way your coders lack design judgment.

[micromacrofoot] id=47824134
"This works but the app is slow, can you optimize it." I'm not even kidding, most of the time this is all that's needed. Repo patterns don't really matter because humans barely end up looking at the code.We've had a customer send us a prototype of what they wanted built with AI, and they don't have a college degree in anything. It followed our codebase patterns without any prompting, included tests, and all we had to do was wire up the backend.

[girvo] id=47819726
On the other hand, teaching taste is quite hard, and is what people respond to and what designers learn.Teaching programming is a bit of mostly solved problem, today anyway.

[operatingthetan] id=47819953
Realistically this doesn't mean all pure designers go away.  Large orgs can have a small team that set the overall style guide and designs important pages, and the rest of the org just follows using AI to iterate.

[slopinthebag] id=47820040
This is so context-dependent. Coding some generic crud app is indeed becoming more automated, but most of the stuff I end up building is just way outside the capabilities of current LLMs to accomplish without significant steering and gasps hand written code. Most of the stuff LLMs are good at ones hotting are the same things a non-coder could build with no-code platforms anyways. Which is great imo, it means we can utilise our skills and expertise on stuff that is more "cutting edge".

[bombcar] id=47819707
AI is impressive but this same sea-change happened at least twice before - the era when computers went from being rooms full of women(354) to machines programmed in machine language(892) to those with screens, keyboards and even assemblers (assembly language, especially macro assemblers, were considered seriously high level at a time), to mid-level languages like C (considered needlessly complex and slow at one time, now considered barely above a macro assembler), to high-level languages like Java and even higher ones (arguably) like Rust.Every one of those transitions has resulted in more programmers - though not necessarily the same programmers.354: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_(occupation)892: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Story_of_Mel

[throw310822] id=47819861
AI isn't a technology that replaces programmers, it's a technology that replaces generic human beings. The manager of your agents will be an agent, too.

[operatingthetan] id=47819991
React, Nextjs, Vue, Nuxt, and Angular are pretty much what AI is the very best at coding in my experience.  Probably because they are all meant to build essentially the same thing with different curtains.

[alkonaut] id=47819427
So let me get this straight (Pretend I'm 50, a developer since childhood, but I can't CSS to save my life) are there shops where developers, even front end developers, have to talk to designers who are't just sketching an idea for a logo or landing page, but designers who run this Figma thing and maintain the entire products "design" in some "style database"? And the idea is that these designers - who aren't developers - should be able to tweak the look of things without changing code? Or is it usually just the front end devs that run this Figma thing, but they dislike the disconnect between it and their code?

[skydhash] id=47819477
UX designers I encountered have mostly been tasked on ensuring consistency across the various product (A lot of devs are very cavalier about spacing and font sizes). Sometimes they proposed new flows and layouts, especially when the product needs a coat of paint.So tools like Figma is nice in that regards as it's simpler to iterate on (From simple to hardest: Sketch on whiteboard|paper, Wireframe tools like Balsimiq, Figma|Sketch, css code) because it's pure fiddling with various properties. Figma has direct feedback while the code may require a compilation phase.

[kevinsync] id=47819584
lol yes. At least in agency world, a common approach in the last X years has been that designers create entire pixel-perfect, component-based sources-of-truth in Figma (which evolve! they aren't delivered static and complete) -- these are also what the client sees and approves, or at the very least they see branded deck slides that incorporate the Figma designs. Anyways, front end then re-implements from Figma into CSS, except it's usually best-approximation (not pixel-perfect) partially because, despite Figma allowing you to "copy CSS" for an element, it's unusable, almost inline CSS (and usually not aware of its ascendents and descendents, or any variables you're maintaining in CSS, or any class hierarchies, etc), and partially because the units of measurement aren't always identical on either side. You'll also often have multiple FE devs recreating components independently of each other (as a team effort), which can lead to drift and different implementations, which is fun. Then, depending upon the tech stack, FE might be building these components in something like Storybook [0] as a "front end source of truth", which then are either directly injected into a React or NextJS app or whatever, or sometimes they're partially or fully re-implemented again into BE components in the CMS (ex. Sitefinity). Then people ask which one is the source of truth, but really it's a chain of sources of truth that looks more like the telephone game than a canonical "brand bible". Then throw in any out-of-the-box future client efforts (say, a promotional landing page hosted outside of the main project) and you may have yet another reimplementation of part of the same design, but in a completely different system.[0] https://storybook.js.org

[xnx] id=47825323
Architects draft buildings on computer because building in the real world is time consuming, expensive, and cannot be undone.It's says something about the way things are now that we no longer go straight to building the digital interface, but instead make a fake digital interface first.

[monkpit] id=47821644
Replace the word figma with the word “specification” and it seems pretty reasonable to me. Same thing. It’s not a belief, it’s a process.

[satvikpendem] id=47820440
In a bigger company, yes, as it's required to make sure every engineer implements everything in the same way without differences in style over time.

[nate8bit] id=47819444
Some good points, but as a whole - I'm not sure if I agree. Sketch lost to Figma because of it's design tooling & multiplayer. Physical products still get designed before being constructed - I don't see that going away. If anything, I think Figma should stop trying to play both sides of the field and decide what it wants to be.

[dewey] id=47822265
> Sketch lost to Figma because of it's design tooling & multiplayer.Or maybe because you could just send a Figma link to anyone in your org and it opened in the browser vs having to tell them to download some Mac app and open a specific file that will get outdated over time.

[markbao] id=47819516
I don’t really buy that Claude Design will remove all the complexity around design. Vibe-coded apps using Claude look simpler because they are simpler. They’re not a gigantic product suite with extremely specific UI components tailored to each use case. The ‘simplicity’ is an illusion coming from conflating the complexity of a bicycle (a vibe coded app) with an airplane (an app like Figma).Building the same design system component in code versus in Figma is going to be slightly more succinct in code; Figma’s primitives don’t have the sort of conditionals and control flow that code has. But code is much less malleable than drawing on a screen, and creative freedom is harder to achieve in code.UI can fix the gap where code feels less malleable than Figma, but complexity comes largely from the worlds that humans create, and humans apparently want to create 8 modes for 4 products and 2 light/dark modes. If you want the same setup in Claude, it’ll be a little easier to maintain, but not much less complex.

[notahacker] id=47823332
Feels like a lot of them are using Bootstrap, curated Tailwind elements or Wordpress templates. In which case the challenge Anthropic faces is convincing them the extra flexibility and magical "type into prompt" approach to customization of Claude Design is worth the compute cost...Figma is answering a different question which is "are you prepared to spend time and money on full time designers to have pixel perfect layouts agreed with managers and consistent across platforms" and non-AI tooling has been orders of magnitude faster and cheaper at generating something that looks good enough as end results rather than mockups since before it existed.

[uxcolumbo] id=47819622
I miss the days of having a native desktop design app with a perpetual license.What Figma achieved technically in the 2010s was amazing. Coded the app in C++ and then used WASM to deliver it as a multiplayer web app.But now it's trying to be too many things. Why did they ever feel the need to add slides and this other stuff.Their MCP is poor (sure, they'll improve it).The app struggles with larger files and performance is sloppy.And don't get me started trying to design data grid heavy apps.And they could easily follow Adobe's lead. Enshittify and lock you out of your account whenever they feel it's necessary (remember what happened with Venezuelan Adobe users a few years ago?)Either Penpot gets their act together and will become the opensource design canvas for open-weight AI models or we will see another open source solution that will fill this space.

[uxcolumbo] id=47822835
By then I'm hoping we'll have an open source solution at the same quality and UX that Blender provides for 3D.

[pypt] id=47819831
Claude Design is just a big opinionated prompt: https://www.lobsterpack.com/blog/claude-design-trenchcoat/. Among other things, it knows it isn't that great at drawing SVGs, so it won't try unless you force it to. For a logo, try drawing it with vanilla Claude Code as if it was a separate project: ask a "design agency" to ask you questions, answer them, then make a detailed brief of what you want to draw, then make it output an exact plan of what and where will it draw, lastly ask the chatbot to do the actual drawing using sub-agents for drawing individual components. Also add a "render it to a raster and make sure it looks right" step as well.

[Sateeshm] id=47831214
My prediction for every creator tool will be 30% deterministic software and the rest 70 is a long system prompt. This is the future.

[troupo] id=47819704
Oh no. Figma has variables and instances and it's hard to debug bad colors.And here I am with Claude Code... That so far generated a 2000-line CSS file for a 7000-line app consisting of literally three web pages [1]. Where almost every single color, component, class and style is duplicated at least two times. Where custom classes are fighting with Tailwind classes (yes, there's also Tailwind ON TOP of custom CSS) that are fighting with inline hardcoded style= declarations.Figma is definitely going to suffer the vibe-coded design slop-app from Anthropic.[1] 7k lines are almost justified for the functionality in them, and I tried to keep an eye on the code. It's harder to keep an eye on CSS

[bombcar] id=47819732
We can blame AI for slopcoding but it's just what we've been doing for decades now - who cares if it takes 9000 lines to do what in theory Linus and Knuth and Carmack could do in 3000? Our CPUs eat a million lines of code for breakfast and demand more.

[zmmmmm] id=47820233
Have had similar dramas with CSS. Opus/Sonnet seem to have far less taste and discipline in writing CSS - constantly they are trying to slam in changes with !important or inline styles rather than think through how to do it properly.

[mickdarling] id=47819716
I used it today to take a look at my previously built design system with Logos, branding, fonts, and everything else. After a lot of annoying tweaking back and forth, finally, I got something that was satisfactory.Then I looked at the usage and it said I had used 95% of my Claude design usage for the week!This isn't a real tool. This is a plaything, if that's what they're providing as examples.

[adriand] id=47819885
I had a similar experience with running out of usage quite quickly, after setting up one design system properly, and then getting pretty close with a second one. But it's a research preview - I'm sure it will change.I was quite happy with what I pulled off using the first design system: I wanted a new footer section for my IPAAS startup, it generated four options, the fourth of which was quite good. We iterated on it for a bit, then I pulled it into Claude Code (that integrated feature is very cool), CC built it, I deployed it, done. (Bottom section of https://tediware.com/ if you're interested, the bit with "Origin story" on the left and the signup panel on the right).It was not a complicated build by any means but I liked the concept it developed and it was dead-easy to make it all happen. I think the ideas in the UI are very good. Still rough, but you can see where this could go, and it's got a ton of potential.

[adriand] id=47820054
Iterative experience (experimenting with different ideas, deciding what works best) and speed of execution (once I was happy with it, making it happen required almost no work).

[slopinthebag] id=47820159
Thats fair. Could you have the same iterative experience with an LLM, but starting with a prebuilt base and iterating from there?

[throwaway7783] id=47820245
Yes. Even without Claude design and just Claude code, it can use existing design and build out new mockups in-app, which is much easier to demo , tweak and then implement the backend (if any) - all through Claude Code (or Codex if you prefer that). We use both and are now leaning more towards Codex over Claude

[gopher_space] id=47822075
> So you can take bootstrap (or even raw html) and create something useful. Then you make it nice, not the other way around.Design with a capital D is a completely different realm than whatever you’re talking about.  Not even in the same ballpark.

[alwillis] id=47820326
Things to keep in mind:• Claude Design uses Opus 4.7, which is more expensive than earlier models.• It's just Day 2; it's not a finished product. It's ridiculous how quickly Anthropic iterates.• If you've been using Claude for a while, Design already knows your style and preferences. You'd have to start from scratch using a different AI design tool. I don’t doubt that'll pay dividends in the long run.

[versteegen] id=47821203
They're definitely not subsidizing API pricing, can't believe how prevalent that fallacy is on HN of all places. The question is how profitable Claude Code is. Your example 2 is real and major but your example 1 is ridiculous, almost any new model from any company is better at the same price, and how is increasing the price an example of decreasing prices??BTW, Github Copilot is pricing Opus 4.7 at 2.5x the cost of Opus 4.6 at promotional pricing (so maybe it'll be 4-5x). But Github's request based pricing is insane, completely divorced from their actual costs (you can achieve 1+M tokens for $0.10 if you give it a large request), so I'd assume they're losing a lot of money.

[b112] id=47822151
They're definitely not subsidizing API pricingThe cost of a thing, is relative to its source costs.  They are subsidizing API pricing, if you consider all the costs to provide the service, including all model creation, training, etc costs.But that doesn't mean they will be more expensive, longer term.  The cost of compute will go down as time goes on.  Each year it will get cheaper.  Same for power requirements, computing density, cooling, and so on.I remember trying to store and play mp3 files on older computers.  I could typically hold a few on a disk, and if I wasn't doing anything else I could play one.  Barely.  Now you'll be hard pressed to play an mp3 and see the load results in top or what not.The same will be true of AI in 20 years.

[deadbabe] id=47828988
If you are using LLMs for tool use locally, then in a decade it will not make sense anymore to pay for hosted solutions. Your device will have compute power to run powerful LLMs trivially.If you need LLMs at scale to serve many customers, then hosted solutions make sense for the availability aspect. But by this point models can be offered by any generic services provider, like AWS or Cloudflare. Pure AI companies that just offer hosted models and nothing else will go extinct if they don’t expand to offer more services.

[miohtama] id=47820471
They can iterate fast, because their devs and only their devs have access to the best Claude Code on the planet.

[b212] id=47820932
They iterate fast because they slap different names at the same thing they’ve been selling for years now.

[hbosch] id=47820534
I used Claude Design to see how it'd spit out a design I already had been working on for some weeks, given a dense enough prompt and a decent requirements document (I did not feed it visuals). I thought the output was pretty good! It didn't match the style we're after at all but it did do some logical content grouping and made some IA decisions I decided to pull into my own explorations. Overall I left with a good impression.And then I was scrolling Twitter, and saw someone else post their own "success story" and the design was nearly identical to the mock up Claude Design made for me. Lol. The homogenization problem will continue to plague tools like these to some degree, much in the same way AI generated text or code or imagery has a sort of homogenous tone or feel to it.

[b112] id=47822130
This exudes everywhere.  I've had cases of where some weirdo company changes their packaging on, say, soap... and now I literally can't find what I used to use.  The logic is that some other company is cloning their look, so they want to "stand out" again, and thus change theirs.Sometimes, I'll manage to find the brand with the new colours and logo.  But often even then, I can't find the specific product from that brand.  They've changed it so much I can't tell which version I picked before.  Which makes me look for something more like what I used to have.Good job "standing out" guys.  I'd say literally maybe 1/3 of the time, I've just literally lost products.  I don't know the name, just how it looks.

[tpmoney] id=47825050
This is kind of a revisionist view of software. I think most of the consistency we remember from software past is because skipping the OS tollboxes and doing your own custom UI was hard rather than because most software developers cared about consistency. Yes the OS vendors did, but one doesn't need to go far to find applications that very much did their own thing. "Bubbly" and "goopy" UIs of the sort "Kai's Power Tools" exemplified were all over in the 90's. Everyone's favorite Winamp was famously not using the standard UI toolkits and had a heavily customizable UI. To say nothing of the many software packages that used the standard toolkits only far enough to give you a window that was then filled with some sort of Macromedia or similar UI that was then completely proprietary to the application itself (think encyclopedia and other educational software of the day). Even the OS vendors couldn't help themselves sometimes (looking at you QuickTime 7)If older software was more consistent, it's only because the OS didn't provide nearly the same degree of customization options that HTML and CSS provide developers today. Not because of some pride in consistency.

[theli0nheart] id=47821386
Good design is distinctive. No one wants a world where everything looks the same.

[jorl17] id=47821489
Design is too broad a word for what is being discussed here and often in the world at large.Still, to me, good design is intuitive. I look at the thing, and I know how to use it. If it looks great and distinctive, even better. But most outlandishly distinctive design I've (consciously?) found is terrible.Obviously, these short sentences hide a lot:- To know how to use things, I must have prior experience. But different users have different prior experiences and acquired design patterns (i.e. interaction patterns)- My knowledge of the domain is also different from that of other users.- The way I interact with the system is affected by many factors (e.g. accessibility related concerns, zoom, etc.)- Intuition is not magic. It comes after training as well. Good design is discoverable. Extraordinary design reinforces its own patterns seamlessly, so that I learn it without even knowing I'm learning (see: hidden tutorials in game design). I also include here the incredible attributes of good design that far predate computer-related design (e.g. how an icon should be recognizable just by its silhouette, or how apps "invisibly" teach us what each color or even section of the screen means).- My incentive to learn (sometimes "tolerate") the design depends on many variables. Some of these include the design's "taste", yes. Others depend on how much my boss/client is paying me to "use this shit".I wouldn't say I want a world where everything looks the same, but I certainly want one where everything works the same, and some geniuses once in a while add something new to my list of known (and loved) design patterns. I am not anti-design-experiments, but I will take a predictable UI that looks like windows 98 everyday over some "distinctive" shit that breaks all manner of expected behaviors (from keyboard shortcuts, to colors, to button placement, to relative sizing, to........)

[Jensson] id=47821773
I think its good that HN and reddit are basically the same, or that all old forums were basically the same but with different color schemes. Homogeneity is a blessing for UX.

[duskdozer] id=47823929
If "everything looks the same" means no more branding obsession, sign me up.

[slopinthebag] id=47819802
I feel like we're leaning way too much into the "vibe" aspect of using LLMs at the moment. There is definitely a good use case for LLM's here, but is just prompting your way into a design really the best method here? I feel like something in between Figma and Claude Design would give designers the control they want, but still removing the friction of going between design files and the code impl.

[allan_s] id=47819815
As someone who spent quite some times these days to reverse the figma protocol[0] I can't agree more with> Figma accidentally excluded themselves from the training data that would have made them relevant in the agentic era.Their binary format is so much of a "let's reinvent everything" which I think come from the fact it's a tool you can use for web design, android app design, ios design and anything-you-want design that it became a jack of all trade and so mapping it to web is not a perfect 1:1 translation.And for being useful to agent, any people who got to implement the figma from a UX guy know that even human can't know truly the intent of most figma design, so how a LLM could ? Common source of question that even the UX guy has no answer for:  1. Ok this button looks great, but in German how will it look ? 
  2. Oh and actually this button does not look great when i put in CSS, it wraps on two line, you cheated again with the letter spacing, did you ?
  3. How does it look on a phone that is not an iphone ? 
  4. You know that doing a border with a gradien is not possible in CSS, so what should i put ?
  5. How does it look on a 4k screen ?
  6. etc.

I know that most of these question can be answered by props and autolayout, and I've been asking the 5 question above these days on a figma that had these but it's just that the UX guy is not that mythical beast that "know-how-to-use-figma-right"So I can't wait for these tools that are html behind to catch up, even more if we can have the prompt with it. (As a developer I never got to see the prompt the product manager made to the UX guy)[0]https://github.com/allan-simon/figma-kiwi-protocol

######################### story 47832366: Figma's woes compound with Claude Design (27 matches)
[stingraycharles] id=47832921
> Anthropic themselves launched Claude Design which is a pretty direct competitor to Figma in many ways. While it's nowhere near functional and polished enough to replace Figma's core design product, I expect it will get significant traction outside of thatThe reaction that designers I know have given Claude Design couldn’t be different than how Claude Code was received by software devs. It’s simply useless for designers, their workflow is very different from software devs. You can’t “oh let Claude Design come up with a quick logo for this” in the same way that Claude Code was able to quickly solve small annoyances for devs.People that think that Claude Design is going to replace Figma don’t really understand how both products relate.Claude Design empowers non-designers to make decent designs. It’s not aimed at designers.Figma will probably better integrate AI in their own offering at some point which will help designers become more productive. And that will be the end of it.

[sbarre] id=47833148
Yeah this is my take too..  I know a lot of front-end developers who pay for Figma and/or are not so invested in design that they need to do it all by hand.They will gladly use something like this (many have already started experimenting with other similar products) to get them even 60% of the way there and then they can polish the rest in code...Which is basically how they used Figma before.   Visualize to close enough and then iterate to final in code.If Claude Design can ingest your design system and previous examples and go further than templates and scaffolding, if it can help you brainstorm ideas and variations so you can - as the human in the loop - get to your final design faster..Why wouldn't you do that?

[aurareturn] id=47833111
  People that think that Claude Design is going to replace Figma don’t really understand how both products relate.

The entire workflow between designer --> dev hand off is going to change.I think the most effective teams will be working within Claude, not within Figma.For individual creators, this will definitely replace Figma. I bought Sketch for use as an individual creator because I wanted to create mocks before coding them. There's no way I'd make the same purchase today.Anyways, I'm sure Claude Design will incorporate some of Figma's features such as a company wide design language.

[NitpickLawyer] id=47833173
> couldn’t be different than how Claude Code was received by software devs. It’s simply useless for designers, their workflow is very different from software devs. You can’t “oh let Claude Design come up with a quick logo for this” in the same way that Claude Code was able to quickly solve small annoyances for devs.Haha, that's exactly how cc was received initially. It's just autocomplete. It's useless. It can't even x. I tried to y and it gave me z. Over and over all over the internet this was the reaction. Then the bargaining began. Oh, it will maybe speed up some simple things. Like autocomplete on steroids. Maaaybe do some junior tasks once in a while. And so on...

[troupo] id=47833480
It's still an autocomplete on steroids (that's what LLMs are).It still produces subpar code, with horrendous data access patterns, endless duplication of fucntionality etc. You still need a human in the loop to fix all the mistakes (unless you're Garry Tan or Steve Yegge who assume that quality is when you push hundreds of thousands of LoC per day).Same here.Oh, and Claude Code is significantly worse at generating design code than almost any other type of code.

[dilawar] id=47833484
Fair point but unlike code, design (webpage), audio, video are seen by consumers. If Sora (AI video) didn't fly, how'd AI web-design fly?It is pretty good for internal apps and dashboards or small hobby pages and websites where being generic look and feel doesn't matter much.

[coldtea] id=47840549
>how'd AI web-design fly?Most web design is already crap to begin with, so AI web-design will fit right in.Plus compared to the totally open-ended video generation, web desisn is mostly samey (follows a few trends and conventions), way more restricted, and doesn't include difficult-to-recreate (due to uncanny valley effect) humans in it.

[tomhallett] id=47833921
Agreed - For the last 20 years or so, designers at basecamp.com do all of their frontend design directly in rails/html/css and then have the developers "re-implement it".  The upside of this approach is designs which really work in the browser and they found it to be faster.  The downside of this approach is that it's harder to find designers who have both of those skills, but that was an acceptable tradeoff for them because they are a smaller run company.To me, it seems obvious that AI will attack this from both directions - upskilling developers to make more design changes AND upskilling designers to make more design iterations and more changes to the codebase -- the design artifact is "new react components" (which can be re-implemented or not) instead of a figma design.

[nkoren] id=47833368
As someone who does both development and design, I agree. With some caveats.At this point, Claude now writes > 99% of my code. I wasn't an enthusiastic early adopter; it took me a while to be willing to let go of the reins. But in tandem with LLMs getting better, I also began to realize that what happens inside the code is very rarely important enough for me to care about. Like, I care that it's secure, and performant where it needs to be, etc. -- but mostly I just care about its outputs. If it does what I want it to do, then how it does this doesn't really matter to me or my clients or my users. On the development side, my attention has focused to writing specifications and monitoring the correctness of the test suite, and > 99% of the time that's good enough. It's been a lesson in non-attachment to let go of lovingly crafting every single line of code, but the tradeoff in terms of productivity has absolutely been worth it.What makes this viable is the fact that there's essentially a "hidden layer" (the code) upon which Claude can operate. My clients don't actually care about the code, and within certain bounds (correctness, security, performance, extensibility, etc.) it turns out that neither do I. This gives Claude a lot of latitude to solve things in its own way, and I think that's a bit part of its effectiveness.On the other hand, with design there is no hidden layer. Every single aspect of the design is visible to the user and the customer. So the design reflects upon my work in ways that code does not. This means that the conditions which allow me to relax my grip on coding just don't exist for design. It's very difficult for me to imagine delegating design in the same way that I've become comfortable delegating coding.That said: I suspect that the use-case for Claude Design will be for applications which today receive very little design attention. There are loads of applications where design is less than an afterthought, and the product suffers terribly for it. Delegating to Claude, in those contexts, would likely be a very big win. But for applications which already have designers obsessing over every pixel, I see a very limited role for this. Figma's market is mostly the latter -- the former, by definition, is not part of the market for design tools -- so I don't see them being threatened by this for a long time.

[nkoren] id=47834918
Sure there are goals -- but the problem is, you can't make automated tests for them in the same way as you can for (many) software engineering outputs. So you can A/B test something for conversion rate, and find that instead of getting more conversions, it damages your brand. Or it gets more conversions AND damages your brand. And maybe brand damage is frankly not the worst thing in the world with some demographics, but is catastrophic for other demographics. And even if you were okay with doing this kind of A/B testing in the wild, how do you even instrument for everything that matters, anyhow? Your first port of call for security wouldn't be to do an A/B test on how hackable you are.These sort of issues are what you trust the judgement of a good designer to navigate through. I have no doubt that Claude Design can be better than no designer, and probably better than a bad designer, too. But better than a good designer? I'm more skeptical of that than I am of software engineering.

[embedding-shape] id=47833498
> Claude Design empowers non-designers to make decent designs. It’s not aimed at designers.There is a bunch of repetitive work in design as well, once you start working on larger projects. Yes, everything should be setup with components/reusability and what not, but just like programmers take shortcuts sometimes, so do designers, and you have to repeat the same change across many instances/files whenever you have to pay back the "technical debt".Probably Claude Design could be quite helpful in those cases, and the same goes for other domains too, same happens in video editing and 3D work, probably any creative effort has moments of dull, repetitive "do this change across X" where any automation would be of serious help to reduce that. It seems like a quite good thing to try to address with LLM tooling, still driven by actual humans.

[coldtea] id=47840489
>You can’t “oh let Claude Design come up with a quick logo for this” in the same way that Claude Code was able to quickly solve small annoyances for devs.Sure you can, and many otherwise would-be human-designer-clients, will do exactly that. Nike might not, but 99% of the companies hiring designers are not Nike scale.

[ehnto] id=47845833
You are right I think, a lot of clients need a design as a practicality rather than a differentiating factor, they will be more than happy with a generic design output for next to nothing.Many companies are not really based around their web design being a big factor in their business. Some very influential companies in my area look like they last updated their website in 1998.

[strimoza] id=47832995
Used Claude Design to build the landing page for my side project (strimoza.com) over the weekend. Honestly impressive for a solo dev with no design background — got something shippable in a few hours. That said, I still ended up going back to tweak things manually. It's great for 80%, the last 20% still needs judgment. Not sure it kills Figma for teams, but for indie devs it's a game changer.

[iamsaitam] id=47833065
If i can be forthright, it looks like any other llm slop website design. The grain effect, the extra long FAQ, the reveal animations, the bad combination of font sizes and contrast ratios.. you're better off ripping off a website that has been actually designed by someone who understands what they are doing.

[girvo] id=47833070
Claude Design into PenPot via its MCP was a really neat flow, for something generic looking anyway. With the correct prompts and it even built out reusable PenPot components and design system tokens etc

[thinkindie] id=47833147
my 2 cents - Claude is not going after EVERY single SaaS (or maybe not yet), but after those products that are adopted by individuals that are keen at experimenting new tools (software engineers, designers etc etc).At the same time I have the feeling Claude Design is more useful to get UI context closer to Code Claude then anything (and eventually some quick prototyping), but I might be wrong.Either way, I've been trying to upload a 95MB .fig file and I get a generic error message without any information on the issue itself (is the file too big? not the right format? Tell me!)

[try-working] id=47842821
At the same time you have OpenAI's "no more sidequests". These labs can only expand so far horizontally. I don't believe they will go very far beyond code generation and its adjacenies.

[jmull] id=47833523
Not sure Claude Design really competes with Figma.While it has a strong potential to let people iterate on using a design without the nuts and bolts of going back and forth with a designer, CD operates at the "leaf-node" level, where the output is generated.However, a lot of design has a deeper life-cycle than that. There's the collaboration, pitching, review, iteration, asset management, etc.In fact, the first step for using CD is "onboarding", where it sucks up a design system from your existing assets/resources. It presumes you already have a design.As it stands now, CD is one way... existing design -> task specific resources. This could be very useful, but only touches on a part of what a complete design tool does. But for iteration it's not so great. E.g. task specific concerns don't have a way to feed back to the originating design. Changes to the originating design don't have a direct path to feed back to the task specific output (e.g., when a logo or branding focus changes, or maybe just spacing guidelines are updated, the ad hoc processes around CD will have to be repeated if the changes are to actually land.)I'd think AI design integrated with Figma is in a much better position to address these more complicated scenarios.I doubt Claude Design even cares about these deeper scenarios, BTW -- it's intended as a leaf-node tool. Just pointing out it's not about to replace Figma or other more comprehensive design tools.

[coldtea] id=47840452
>However, a lot of design has a deeper life-cycle than that. There's the collaboration, pitching, review, iteration, asset management, etc.If corners can be cut, they will. All those steps would be flatened to something like CD and a couple of side tools.Companies did "collaboration, pitching, review, iteration" because they had a designer in the loop anyway for the actual final work. Now that they don't have to, how many will just skip those steps, and if it means the end product gets less intented and "defined", they'd be fine with that?

[girvo] id=47841240
Exactly the same thing as coding, where “we don’t want to lower the quality bar” platitudes are repeated, while in actual fact that’s exactly what they want from us with AI output, consequences be damned. The stock market will reward us for the short term play.

[cm11] id=47841663
Agreed. I also think the collaboration, pitching, review bits have been heavily design theater for awhile. I'm not saying it was the designer carrying on the charade, but the product team generally. Those steps all really happen only for the final implementation to be a frankensteined fraction of what was discussed. I'm not saying anything remotely like we should be more respectful of the designer's effort, I'm saying there's so much wasted and unused design work. I'm saying you could cut that out of the process and you'd get a very similar end result. That end result might be bad (perhaps it would help to be more respectful of the designer's efforts), but it's the same either way.The requirements are so unstable—the product team has few strong beliefs—that they change the next day. And then again every few days after. Hopefully, the changes are small enough that design isn't full resetting each time, but it's not rare to have big changes. The entire project gets swapped not infrequently. What eventually slows the changes is the engineering deadline and the fact that the developers need to start. But the slow drip of product requirements means whatever time budgeting went to design shrinks. And whatever time went to engineering is eaten into such that now the design needs to be something that can be built in half the original amount of dev time. Each day the designer takes at this point eats into that window and so it's dictated by what can get built.I don't think that has to strictly be viewed like an entirely bad outcome, but for what it is and how it's accomplished, you could just cut the design part out. Besides, you're going to iterate later, right? Right?

[coldtea] id=47842299
>I also think the collaboration, pitching, review bits have been heavily design theater for awhile. I'm not saying it was the designer carrying on the charade, but the product team generally. Those steps all really happen only for the final implementation to be a frankensteined fraction of what was discussed. Absolutely. A chance for middle management and C-levels to bikeshed inconsequential bullshit and feel like they're doing something.>That end result might be bad (perhaps it would help to be more respectful of the designer's efforts), but it's the same either way.Can't be that worse than the slow to load, 50MB for a page, flat design full of wasted space shit redesigned every year or so to follow the new stupid trends that we're getting for the past 15 years

[bcjdjsndon] id=47847534
> However, a lot of design has a deeper life-cycle than that. There's the collaboration, pitching, review, iteration, asset management, etc.Sometimes people want some graphics without it being like they're planning a wedding

[edu] id=47841231
Not the OP, but here are my 2 CT’s on what is design:Design is the process to you follow to solve a given problem/need/desire balancing the user needs with the business/tech constraints. The output could be a a digital UI, a physical object or an intangible process. But often people think about design just as the aesthetics of a product.A common pattern is the Empathize (Research, Diverge), Define (Converge), Ideate (Diverge), Prototype (Converge), Test (and then iterate).The main benefits come from the divergent phases: empathize and ideate. But it’s far too common already that some executive has an “illumination” of how something should be and just wants to build as is, without any research or validation.They can use Claude Design (and similar) to just build a prototype of their first idea, skipping all the design process and end with something that looks good but doesn’t solve the problem adequately or fits the actual user needs/context.Of course, LLMs are useful tools that can be used in the right way: to build better prototypes in less time, to synthesize research insights, to explore ideas…

[oliyoung] id=47842556
But then that furthers the argument that Figma is dead-in-the-waterThese are a design communication tools, in the same way FrontPage and Dreamweaver back in the day - they enable a designer to communicate intent to create solutions to UX design problems in a way that can be understood by downstream production.Using Figma doesn't immediately make something aesthetic or useful, its just a tool. Claude Design enables the same thing, it enables someone to communicate design intent, with a much lower bar.These AI tools like Loveable just do more of the groundwork than Figma does

[rcleveng] id=47841356
I tried out claude design yesterday and I have to say, it's exactly what I thought (hoped?) Figma Make was going to be.I didn't want yet another lovable.dev or v0 with figma make, I wanted the prompt -> figma design which I could iterate on by hand once I got something in place (and also faster route to creating the prototype in figma) to play with the UX of it.

######################### story 49058547: Hallmark – Anti-AI-Slop Design Skill for Claude Code, Cursor, and Codex (7 matches)
[loopmonster] id=49058918
Loving the collage of screenshots where every one screams of being AI generatedThe only ones in the readme that don't feel like slop, to my eye, are Cold Snap and Mend Assembly - I like those. The rest are all practically identical and are the go-to output for what you get if you ask Sonnet to build a website.

[aleksiy123] id=49059109
Has anyone got this or impeccable or any other to actually work?For me it still pretty much looks like slop.

[mstkllah] id=49059235
I have used skills like impeccable, ui-ux-max, and many, many others and they all seem to converge on the same thing. They are good to help out with some inconsistencies, accessibility, streamlining, but the design itself is the same unless you are extremely explicit.

[aleksiy123] id=49059338
Pretty much my experience as well.At the end of the day you pretty much gotta direct and iterate over and over.

[sixtyj] id=49062523
I have tried all possible ways: skills, shuffle.dev ai editor, moonchild.ai, giving screenshots of existing sites as a sample. I don’t count Lovable or Figma html2figma plugin or figma2code plugin etc.After burning a lot of time and endless tinkering, I have realized that the only way to speed up the process is draw on paper into the most detail you can, then redraw into figma or penpot (architects that draw more nicely, can scan images)  and then to prompt a LLM (multimodal one that can ingest images).This may lead to less sloppy design.I have tried impeccable, jakubkrehel skills, and many others.LLMs still put something AI-ish into design anyway, you can feel it. So first faster step with less iterations is simple drawings and design logic by hand. (There was a study that said that drawing by hand uses different brain ways than drawing with mouse - this is the reason behind artists’ use of large scale tablets and multitouch pens.)

[opwizardx] id=49085262
It at least tries to attack the convergence directly by keeping a log of past builds in .hallmark/log.json and hard-fails a run that repeats the last few page structures or themes. While it still admits its nav-rotation rule is "the single most-violated rule in practice"...

[torunar] id=49059468
Anti-AI-slop skill for a slop maker. Ironic.

######################### story 44878257: Launch HN: Design Arena (YC S25) – Head-to-head AI benchmark for aesthetics (7 matches)
[j_da] id=44878726
We started out building a platform to one-shot games (single-player and multi-player), but realized that the model you used under the hood really made a difference in functionality and graphics. We started out building the benchmark as an internal tool for ourselves to see which model was the best, but found that benchmarking models on visual "taste" was something that people were generally interested in currently.

[Michelangelo11] id=44879009
This is interesting but, speaking frankly, I see many seemingly insurmountable issues. Here are some:- Contests will often be won not by the entry that best adhered to the prompt, but the best-looking one. This happened in the contest "Input Prompt
Build a brutalist website to a typeface maker," which I got as a recent example. The winning entry had megawatt-bright magenta and yellow, which shouldn't appear anywhere near brutalism, and in other design aspects had almost no connection to brutalism either -- but it was the most attractive of the bunch.- The approach only gets you to a local maximum. Current LLMs aren't very good designers, as you say, so contests will involve picking between mostly middling entries. You'd want a design that's, say, a 9 or a 10 on a 10-point scale -- but some 95% of the entry distribution will probably be between 5.5 and 7.5 or so, and that's what users will get to pick from.

[henriquegodoy] id=44879135
This is actually really needed, current ai design tools are so predictable and formulaic, like every output feels like the same purple gradients with rounded corners and that one specific sans serif font that every model seems obsessed with, it's gotten to the point where you can spot ai-generated designs from a mile away because they all have this weird sterile aesthetic that screams "made by a model"

[BoorishBears] id=44880621
I don't think this works right now tbh.It has the same problem as LMArena (which already had webarena): better aesthetics are so far out of distribution you can't even train on the feedback you get here.You just get a new form of turbo-slop as some hidden preference takes over. With text output that ended up being extensive markdown and emojis. Here that might be people accidentally associating frosted surfaces with relatively better aesthetics, for example.The problem is so bad LMArena maintains a seperate ranking where they strip away styling entirely

[doctorpangloss] id=44879610
Can you write what you imagine is a good “game dev” prompt?

[grace77] id=44879872
We keep our system prompts across the board as bare bones as possible: https://www.designarena.ai/system-promptsAs for good game dev prompts, here's one from a user that made a pretty fun game: 
Make asteroids with 2 computers playing against each other on one screen. There should be asteroids flying and 2 ships being controlled by 2 computers. Pay attention to thoroughly implementing the logic to make the ships avoid asteroids at all costs. Absolutely no user input should be necessary, no click to start, no click to restart. The game starts automatically on load and automatically restarts when either computer is dead. The ships should survive as long as possible. The ships should fly around, avoid asteroids as a priority, but also shoot asteroids and each other. Make ships and asteroids positions random each time. Asteroids should split when shot. The goal is to create a robust algorithm for ships so they can survive as long as possible. The game should be playable at 500x500 screen resolution.

[willbeddow] id=44883908
Hmm idk about the focus on aesthetics. GPT image is your top image model, a model which is famously poor on aesthetics (though excellent on prompt adherence). I admit it's a difficult thing to eval, though, as in most side by side comparisons users will always pick the image with better prompt adherence regardless of instructions.

######################### story 47810897: Ryan Mather: My tips for getting the best results out of Claude Design (0 matches)
######################### story 48792399: Claude Design System Prompt (18 matches)
[jdormit] id=48793341
This would be much more interesting if it detailed how the prompt/skills were reverse-engineered. As it is it seems like this could just be the output from “hey Claude write me a system prompt that works like Claude Design”.

[bossyTeacher] id=48793625
> This would be much more interesting if it detailed how the prompt/skills were reverse-engineeredThat would enable Anthropic to block the technique.

[weird-eye-issue] id=48793932
They have never attempted to hide their system prompts in fact they explicitly publish them for Claude (https://platform.claude.com/docs/en/release-notes/system-pro...) and Claude Code they provide a proxy option which then makes it trivial to see the full requests and responses including the prompts and tool usage...

[boramdd] id=48793661
honestly, i think you can just look at the network tab and see the "content" of the skills. Same has been true for their excel addin and bunch of other things.

[CartwheelLinux] id=48793779
I'm calling BS, sorry. It looks light, and barely anything beyond surface level of what we could all could guess would be in a system prompt. This smells nothing more of a "claude give a system prompt that anthropic would use as a system prompt for claude"From what we know, there are some very specific details baked into the prompt as safety guards, where are those? Again calling BS and I'm not gonna waste more thought/words on this

[xyzzy_plugh] id=48794300
How can you tell what regular output is? Is there a special output when you successfully jailbreak? Is there a meaningful distinction between jailbroken prompts and hallucinations? Are certain prompts against the terms of service? If so, is it easy to determine if they are? Who determines this? If you produce output that is against the terms of service, does that change the copyright status of the works?I'd love to see this go to court.

[smokel] id=48794719
It does make a difference.  If this text was generated by the LLM, then by those same terms you are allowed to publish the data.  But given that it is reverse engineered, you are not allowed to do so.Note that even in the normal case, there are restrictions.  You'd have to validate that the generated output is not copyrighted.  Which in this case may not be trivial.

[dahart] id=48794816
Oh you’re right, sorry! Well unless the Claude Design prompt is open source licensed, then correct, it’s not legal to publish it under an open license. That would be a copyright violation.

[colinhb] id=48795032
In general I agree with you, especially about how things should work, and find the current trend of claiming LLM-washing code hugely problematic.I do wonder what the analysis would be of these prompts were vibe-coded, though, since in general LLM output can’t be copyrighted without significant human authorship, and Anthropic is pretty noisy about minimal human supervision.

[jdiff] id=48795121
The minimal human supervision for prompts seems like a pretty silly take. LLMs are still pretty bad at creating good prompts for LLMs. Give it a benchmark and some feedback and it can brute force it, but far less effectively. And I thought the point of using LLMs for development was increased efficiency.

[colinhb] id=48796073
My independent judgement and experience is along your lines, but I’m trying to also take Anthropic seriously:> “I don’t prompt Claude anymore. I have loops running that prompt Claude and figuring out what to do. My job is to write loops.”> “Can confirm Claude Code is 100% written by Claude Code”Both from head of Claude Code. Taken either literally or seriously they point to Anthropic shipping code with limited human authorship.

[simonw] id=48793916
I can't even tell if this repository is based on prompts extracted from Claude Design or if the author had an LLM create all of these prompts in it from scratch.The fact that they encourage and accept PRs indicates that this isn't intended as a direct prompt extraction exposure project - plus the license, which should indicate they have the authorship necessary to license that content.Assuming this IS a complete ground-up implementation it really needs to link to demonstrations that it works. Without any evidence it's hard to justify spending time exploring it.

[simonw] id=48793946
If you ask Claude Design itself to list the names of the skills available to it you get:  Animated video
  Interactive prototype
  Make a deck
  Make a doc
  Make tweakable
  Claude API in prototypes
  Frontend design
  Wireframe
  Export as PPTX (editable)
  Export as PPTX (screenshots)
  Create design system
  Save as PDF
  Save as standalone HTML
  Send to Canva
  Handoff to Claude Code

Which does not match the structure of this project at all.

[simonw] id=48794133
Yeah these skills match that list of names, looks like this one may have extracted all of the prompts: https://github.com/JimLiu/baoyu-design/tree/main/skills/baoy...

[robotswantdata] id=48794206
Agree, it’s vibe slopped rather than the actual Claude design system prompt

[robkop] id=48794349
Claude design's prompt is trivial to verify. They bundle it in the frontend bundle and send it on every network request.

[tallesborges92] id=48793950
I trust on this: https://github.com/elder-plinius/CL4R1T4S/blob/main/ANTHROPI...It’s different than this one shared by the op, but Anthropic maybe updated the prompt

[bobkb] id=48794295
How to prove this is indeed the system prompt against a certain timestamp (in the past ) ?

######################### story 47825004: Scoring 500 Show HN pages for AI design slop (1 matches)
[jaggs] id=47825373
So one man's design slop is another man's  'thank goodness we've got some kind of reasonable standard which makes the web kind of nice looking.'In the same way that not everyone can speak English, not everyone has the design chops to make something which looks and works decently. At least AI gives those folk a chance at making a useable web presence?I remember altavista, geocities and 100 other horrible sites which we had to use every day through gritted teeth (also not forgetting gruesome early versions of eBay, Amazon and the rest).  It's nice to get some decent typography and white spacing.
