 AI in Design Report 2026 About About Case Studies Case Studies " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> Read the Report Read the Report Tools 01 Craft 02 Teams 03 ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Sierra 01 Linear 02 Shopify 03 Coming soon Stripe 04 Coming soon Anthropic 05 Coming soon Notion 06 Coming soon Framer 07 Coming soon ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> Menu Menu ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Report Chapters Case Studies About Back Tools 01 Craft 02 Teams 03 Back Sierra 01 Linear 02 Shopify 03 Coming soon Stripe 04 Coming soon Anthropic 05 Coming soon Notion 06 Coming soon Framer 07 Coming soon ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> Menu Menu ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Report Chapters Case Studies About Back Tools 01 Craft 02 Teams 03 Back Sierra 01 Linear 02 Shopify 03 Coming soon Stripe 04 Coming soon Anthropic 05 Coming soon Notion 06 Coming soon Framer 07 Coming soon ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved How designers are evolving their tools, craft, and teams with AI AI in Design Report 2026 By Designer Fund in partnership with Foundation Capital Scroll to read " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086;transform:translateX(-50%)"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> Read the Report Read the Report Sierra 01 Linear 02 Shopify 03 Coming soon Stripe 04 Coming soon Anthropic 05 Coming soon Notion 06 Coming soon Framer 07 Coming soon ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved How designers are evolving their tools, craft, and teams with AI AI in Design Report 2026 By Designer Fund in partnership with Foundation Capital Scroll to read " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086;transform:translateX(-50%)"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> Menu Menu Sierra 01 Linear 02 Shopify 03 Coming soon Stripe 04 Coming soon Anthropic 05 Coming soon Notion 06 Coming soon Framer 07 Coming soon ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Report Chapters Case Studies Back Teams 03 Craft 02 Tools 01 Back Sierra 01 Linear 02 Shopify 03 Coming soon Stripe 04 Coming soon Anthropic 05 Coming soon Notion 06 Coming soon Framer 07 Coming soon ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved How designers are evolving their tools, craft, and teams with AI AI in Design Report 2026 By Designer Fund in partnership with Foundation Capital Scroll to read " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086;transform:translateX(-50%)"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> " style="--1gkvthi:rgb(0, 0, 0);--1hsj9mm:3.086"> Menu Menu ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Report Chapters Case Studies Back Teams 03 Craft 02 Tools 01 Back Sierra 01 Linear 02 Shopify 03 Coming soon Stripe 04 Coming soon Anthropic 05 Coming soon Notion 06 Coming soon Framer 07 Coming soon ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Our partners Our partners An Inflection Point In 2025, designers were experimenting with AI. In 2026, they’re rebuilding around it. An Inflection Point In 2025, designers were experimenting with AI. In 2026, they’re rebuilding around it. An Inflection Point In 2025, designers were experimenting with AI. In 2026, they’re rebuilding around it. An Inflection Point In 2025, designers were experimenting with AI. In 2026, they’re rebuilding around it. 0 + Designers surveyed in 60+ countries. 0 + Interviews with practitioners and leaders 0 + Designers surveyed in 60+ countries. 0 + Interviews with practitioners and leaders 0 + Designers surveyed in 60+ countries 0 + Interviews with practitioners and leaders AI in Design 2026 aims to capture how AI is transforming tech design across designers’ desks and within their teams. We ran our first AI in Design survey in early 2025 because we consistently heard designers and leaders ask, “How are others doing this, and what’s working?” A year later, we’re attempting to get a sense for what’s changed and share firsthand perspectives. The answers come from over 900 designers at startups, enterprises, and agencies who work across disciplines like product design, brand design, research, and design engineering. We also conducted over 20 interviews with leaders at companies actively navigating this shift. Given how quickly practices are evolving, we’ll continue to release new findings throughout the year, including case studies about design at companies like Anthropic, Sierra, Stripe, Notion, Shopify, Linear, and Framer. Sign up for new releases. AI in Design 2026 aims to capture how AI is transforming tech design across designers’ desks and within their teams. We ran our first AI in Design survey in early 2025 because we consistently heard designers and leaders ask, “How are others doing this, and what’s working?” A year later, we’re attempting to get a sense for what’s changed and share firsthand perspectives. The answers come from over 900 designers at startups, enterprises, and agencies who work across disciplines like product design, brand design, research, and design engineering. We also conducted over 20 interviews with leaders at companies actively navigating this shift. Given how quickly practices are evolving, we’ll continue to release new findings throughout the year, including case studies about design at companies like Anthropic, Sierra, Stripe, Notion, Shopify, Linear, and Framer. Sign up for new releases. AI in Design 2026 aims to capture how AI is transforming tech design across designers’ desks and within their teams. We ran our first AI in Design survey in early 2025 because we consistently heard designers and leaders ask, “How are others doing this, and what’s working?” A year later, we’re attempting to get a sense for what’s changed and share firsthand perspectives. The answers come from over 900 designers at startups, enterprises, and agencies who work across disciplines like product design, brand design, research, and design engineering. We also conducted over 20 interviews with leaders at companies actively navigating this shift. Given how quickly practices are evolving, we’ll continue to release new findings throughout the year, including case studies about design at companies like Anthropic, Sierra, Stripe, Notion, Shopify, Linear, and Framer. Sign up for new releases. AI in Design 2026 aims to capture how AI is transforming tech design across designers’ desks and within their teams. We ran our first AI in Design survey in early 2025 because we consistently heard designers and leaders ask, “How are others doing this, and what’s working?” A year later, we’re attempting to get a sense for what’s changed and share firsthand perspectives. The answers come from over 900 designers at startups, enterprises, and agencies who work across disciplines like product design, brand design, research, and design engineering. We also conducted over 20 interviews with leaders at companies actively navigating this shift. Given how quickly practices are evolving, we’ll continue to release new findings throughout the year, including case studies about design at companies like Anthropic, Sierra, Stripe, Notion, Shopify, Linear, and Framer. Sign up for new releases. Katie Dill Head of Design, STRIPE AI is sparking a creative renaissance in design. With new instruments, it’s our chance to compose wholly new music. Katie Dill Head of Design, STRIPE AI is sparking a creative renaissance in design. With new instruments, it’s our chance to compose wholly new music. Katie Dill Head of Design, STRIPE AI is sparking a creative renaissance in design. With new instruments, it’s our chance to compose wholly new music. ')"> 01 Tools The great toolstack shakeup AI usage has surged, but the toolstack is still in flux. Designers are using double the number of off-the-shelf tools than they did in 2025, and they’re building custom software with AI that matches how they like to work. As everyone rushes to keep up with new releases, reliable output quality remains the largest area for improvement. In this chapter, we’ll cover: The most-used AI design tools The toolstack that's multiplying What makes tools stick (+ why many don’t) Designers as builders of their own tools Tool fatigue and the pressure to keep up Read the Tools Chapter 01 Tools The great toolstack shakeup AI usage has surged, but the toolstack is still in flux. Designers are using double the number of off-the-shelf tools than they did in 2025, and they’re building custom software with AI that matches how they like to work. As everyone rushes to keep up with new releases, reliable output quality remains the largest area for improvement. In this chapter, we’ll cover: The most-used AI design tools The toolstack that's multiplying What makes tools stick (+ why many don’t) Designers as builders of their own tools Tool fatigue and the pressure to keep up Read the Tools Chapter 01 Tools The great toolstack shakeup AI usage has surged, but the toolstack is still in flux. Designers are using double the number of off-the-shelf tools than they did in 2025, and they’re building custom software with AI that matches how they like to work. As everyone rushes to keep up with new releases, reliable output quality remains the largest area for improvement. In this chapter, we’ll cover: The most-used AI design tools The toolstack that's multiplying What makes tools stick (+ why many don’t) Designers as builders of their own tools Tool fatigue and the pressure to keep up Read the Tools Chapter 01 Tools The great toolstack shakeup AI usage has surged, but the toolstack is still in flux. Designers are using double the number of off-the-shelf tools than they did in 2025, and they’re building custom software with AI that matches how they like to work. As everyone rushes to keep up with new releases, reliable output quality remains the largest area for improvement. In this chapter, we’ll cover: The most-used AI design tools The toolstack that's multiplying What makes tools stick (+ why many don’t) Designers as builders of their own tools Tool fatigue and the pressure to keep up Read the Tools Chapter 02 Craft Craft in the age of infinite output Everyone is shipping faster. But is speed good for craft? AI has unlocked a new gear for designers: they’re ideating faster, prototyping more, and learning to code. Half of respondents have pushed AI-generated code to production. At the same time, we hear concerns about craft atrophy and the loneliness of designing alongside AI instead of teammates. In this chapter, we’ll cover: Coding as a core design skill Prototyping as a default output The tension between speed and quality Preserving judgment and taste The trend toward designers as builders Read the Craft Chapter 02 Craft Craft in the age of infinite output Everyone is shipping faster. But is speed good for craft? AI has unlocked a new gear for designers: they’re ideating faster, prototyping more, and learning to code. Half of respondents have pushed AI-generated code to production. At the same time, we hear concerns about craft atrophy and the loneliness of designing alongside AI instead of teammates. In this chapter, we’ll cover: Coding as a core design skill Prototyping as a default output The tension between speed and quality Preserving judgment, taste, and skill development The trend toward designers as builders Read the Craft Chapter 02 Craft Craft in the age of infinite output Everyone is shipping faster. But is speed good for craft? AI has unlocked a new gear for designers: they’re ideating faster, prototyping more, and learning to code. Half of respondents have pushed AI-generated code to production. At the same time, we hear concerns about craft atrophy and the loneliness of designing alongside AI instead of teammates. In this chapter, we’ll cover: Coding as a core design skill Prototyping as a default output The tension between speed and quality Preserving judgment and taste The trend toward designers as builders Read the Craft Chapter 02 Craft Craft in the age of infinite output Everyone is shipping faster. But is speed good for craft? AI has unlocked a new gear for designers: they’re ideating faster, prototyping more, and learning to code. Half of respondents have pushed AI-generated code to production. At the same time, we hear concerns about craft atrophy and the loneliness of designing alongside AI instead of teammates. In this chapter, we’ll cover: Coding as a core design skill Prototyping as a default output The tension between speed and quality Preserving judgment and taste The trend toward designers as builders Read the Craft Chapter 03 Teams Redesigning the design org AI gave designers new powers. Now organizations need to adapt. Roles are blurring as designers take on PM and engineering work, and vice versa. Hiring managers want AI fluency alongside a high bar for craft, vision, and storytelling. But few companies have updated performance reviews, team structures, or hiring practices to match how the work has changed. In this chapter, we’ll cover: How companies support AI adoption Blurring of design, PM, and engineering The messy nature of collaboration Changing expectations and company policy What hiring managers are now looking for Read the Teams Chapter 03 Teams Redesigning the design org AI gave designers new powers. Now organizations need to adapt. Roles are blurring as designers take on PM and engineering work, and vice versa. Hiring managers want AI fluency alongside a high bar for craft, vision, and storytelling. But few companies have updated performance reviews, team structures, or hiring practices to match how the work has changed. In this chapter, we’ll cover: How companies support AI adoption Blurring of design, PM, and engineering The messy nature of collaboration Changing expectations and company policy What hiring managers are now looking for Read the Teams Chapter 03 Teams Redesigning the design org Companies have stepped up their support for AI adoption, but most of the learning is still happening between peers. The organizations seeing the most momentum are creating the conditions for tinkering. They’re also rethinking collaboration rituals for a world where anyone can spin up a prototype, but the AI tools they’re using haven’t yet been designed for multiplayer work. In this chapter, we’ll cover: How companies support AI adoption Blurring of design, PM, and engineering The messy nature of collaboration Changing expectations and company policy What hiring managers are now looking for Read the Teams Chapter 03 Teams Redesigning the design org AI gave designers new powers. Now organizations need to adapt. Roles are blurring as designers take on PM and engineering work, and vice versa. Hiring managers want AI fluency alongside a high bar for craft, vision, and storytelling. But few companies have updated performance reviews, team structures, or hiring practices to match how the work has changed. In this chapter, we’ll cover: How companies support AI adoption Blurring of design, PM, and engineering The messy nature of collaboration Changing expectations and company policy What hiring managers are now looking for Read the Teams Chapter Video Case Studies Seven companies. Seven ways of navigating the same shift. Sierra Scaling the system while sweating the details How does a small design team supporting 100+ engineers scale its impact without lowering the bar? Linear Protecting the thinking behind great design As software becomes easier to build, how should design teams preserve their judgment? Coming soon Shopify Growing as a designer In a moment when the tools, skills, and expectations are all shifting at once, how can designers grow and thrive? Get notified Coming soon Stripe Creating the conditions for experimentation How do you build a culture that enables AI adoption instead of dictating the playbook? Get notified Coming soon Anthropic When code is no longer the constraint When AI writes most of the code, how should the design team operate? Get notified Coming soon Notion Working alongside agents What does it feel like to design alongside agents when the tools and workflows change but the philosophy doesn't? Get notified Coming soon Framer Designing the design tools When most AI tools optimize for generation, what does it look like to build one that protects design control instead? Get notified Video Case Studies Seven companies. Seven ways of navigating the same shift. Sierra Scaling the system while sweating the details How does a small design team supporting 100+ engineers scale its impact without lowering the bar? Linear Protecting the thinking behind great design As software becomes easier to build, how should design teams preserve their judgment? Coming soon Shopify Growing as a designer In a moment when the tools, skills, and expectations are all shifting at once, how can designers grow and thrive? Get notified Coming soon Stripe Creating the conditions for experimentation How do you build a culture that enables AI adoption instead of dictating the playbook? Get notified Coming soon Anthropic When code is no longer the constraint When AI writes most of the code, how should the design team operate? Get notified Coming soon Notion Working alongside agents What does it feel like to design alongside agents when the tools and workflows change but the philosophy doesn't? Get notified Coming soon Framer Designing the design tools When most AI tools optimize for generation, what does it look like to build one that protects design control instead? Get notified Video Case Studies Seven companies. Seven ways of navigating the same shift. Sierra Scaling the system while sweating the details How does a small design team supporting 100+ engineers scale its impact without lowering the bar? Linear Protecting the thinking behind great design As software becomes easier to build, how should design teams preserve their judgment? Coming soon Shopify Growing as a designer In a moment when the tools, skills, and expectations are all shifting at once, how can designers grow and thrive? Get notified Coming soon Stripe Creating the conditions for experimentation How do you build a culture that enables AI adoption instead of dictating the playbook? Get notified Coming soon Anthropic When code is no longer the constraint When AI writes most of the code, how should the design team operate? Get notified Coming soon Notion Working alongside agents What does it feel like to design alongside agents when the tools and workflows change but the philosophy doesn't? Get notified Coming soon Framer Designing the design tools When most AI tools optimize for generation, what does it look like to build one that protects design control instead? Get notified Coming soon Inside AI-native design teams Seven video case studies with the design teams at Anthropic, Framer, Linear, Notion, Shopify, Sierra, and Stripe. Go inside the workflows they've rebuilt, the tradeoffs they're navigating, and how they’re operating differently as a team. Get notified when they’re released Coming soon Inside AI-native design teams Seven video case studies with the design teams at Anthropic, Framer, Linear, Notion, Shopify, Sierra, and Stripe. Go inside the workflows they've rebuilt, the tradeoffs they're navigating, and how they’re operating differently as a team. Get notified when they’re released Coming soon Inside AI-native design teams Seven video case studies with the design teams at Anthropic, Framer, Linear, Notion, Shopify, Sierra, and Stripe. Go inside the workflows they've rebuilt, the tradeoffs they're navigating, and how they’re operating differently as a team. Get notified when they’re released Coming soon Inside AI-native design teams Seven video case studies with the design teams at Anthropic, Framer, Linear, Notion, Shopify, Sierra, and Stripe. Go inside the workflows they've rebuilt, the tradeoffs they're navigating, and how they’re operating differently as a team. Get notified when they’re released Get new case studies & report markdown Download the markdown version of the report, ready to drop into any tool. Get notified as new case studies go live. Submit By subscribing, you agree to receive communications from Designer Fund and Foundation Capital in accordance with their privacy policies. Methodology This report draws from 0 Survey responses 0 + Interviews 0 + Public sources " style="--1tonr8n:rgb(255, 255, 255)"> Report Partners Anthropic Framer Stripe Sierra Notion Shopify Linear Report Read the Report About Case Studies " style="--1tonr8n:rgb(255, 255, 255)"> ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Made in Framer by ++hellohello Get new case studies & report markdown Download the markdown version of the report, ready to drop into any tool. Get notified as new case studies go live. Submit By subscribing, you agree to receive communications from Designer Fund and Foundation Capital in accordance with their privacy policies. Methodology This report draws from 0 Survey responses 0 + Interviews 0 + Public sources " style="--1tonr8n:rgb(255, 255, 255)"> Report Partners Anthropic Framer Stripe Sierra Notion Shopify Linear Report Read the Report About Case Studies " style="--1tonr8n:rgb(255, 255, 255)"> ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Made in Framer by ++hellohello Get new case studies & report markdown Download the markdown version of the report, ready to drop into any tool. Get notified as new case studies go live. Submit By subscribing, you agree to receive communications from Designer Fund and Foundation Capital in accordance with their privacy policies. Methodology This report draws from 0 Survey responses 0 + Interviews 0 + Public sources " style="--1tonr8n:rgb(255, 255, 255)"> Report Partners Anthropic Framer Stripe Sierra Notion Shopify Linear Report Read the Report About Case Studies " style="--1tonr8n:rgb(255, 255, 255)"> ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Made in Framer by ++hellohello Get new case studies & report markdown Download the markdown version of the report, ready to drop into any tool. Get notified as new case studies go live. Submit By subscribing, you agree to receive communications from Designer Fund and Foundation Capital in accordance with their privacy policies. Methodology This report draws from 0 Survey responses 0 + Interviews 0 + Public sources " style="--1tonr8n:rgb(255, 255, 255)"> Report Partners Anthropic Framer Stripe Sierra Notion Shopify Linear Report Read the Report About Case Studies " style="--1tonr8n:rgb(255, 255, 255)"> ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Made in Framer by ++hellohello 