 Craft - AI in Design Report 2026 About About Case Studies Case Studies Read the Report Read the Report Tools 01 Craft 02 Teams 03 ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Sierra 01 Linear 02 Shopify 03 Coming soon Stripe 04 Coming soon Anthropic 05 Coming soon Notion 06 Coming soon Framer 07 Coming soon ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Menu Menu ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Report Chapters Case Studies About Back Tools 01 Craft 02 Teams 03 Back Sierra 01 Linear 02 Shopify 03 Coming soon Stripe 04 Coming soon Anthropic 05 Coming soon Notion 06 Coming soon Framer 07 Coming soon ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Menu Menu ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Report Chapters Case Studies About Back Tools 01 Craft 02 Teams 03 Back Sierra 01 Linear 02 Shopify 03 Coming soon Stripe 04 Coming soon Anthropic 05 Coming soon Notion 06 Coming soon Framer 07 Coming soon ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved 02 . Craft Craft in an age of infinite output Reading time: 30 min 02 . Craft Craft in an age of infinite output Reading time: 30 min 02 . Craft Craft in an age of infinite output Reading time: 30 min 02 . Craft Craft in an age of infinite output Reading time: 30 min Changing what we make and how we make it 0 % have used an AI coding tool 0 % have shipped code to production 0 % prefer human judgment over AI in areas like visual polish Changing what we make and how we make it 0 % have used an AI coding tool 0 % have shipped code to production 0 % prefer human judgment over AI in areas like visual polish Changing what we make and how we make it 0 % have used an AI coding tool 0 % have shipped code to production 0 % prefer human judgment over AI in areas like visual polish Changing what we make and how we make it 0 % have used an AI coding tool 0 % have shipped code to production 0 % prefer human judgment over AI in areas like visual polish As designers keep pace with faster-moving product teams, they’re using AI to accelerate tasks across the design process, from discovery and ideation to prototyping and frontend polish. They’re also stretching the scope of their role. Just a year ago, designing with code was typically limited to design engineers or highly technical designers. But in this year’s study, half of our respondents, across product and brand design specialties, say they’ve shipped AI-generated code to production. Many say their teams expect a new design deliverable: fully functional prototypes. Whether code becomes a primary medium or a tool designers use selectively, this shift toward building appears to be energizing. Designers using AI-assisted coding and prototyping are more likely to report feeling more creative and capable at work as a result of AI. At the same time, respondents worry that speed can cut into the incubation time needed for strong ideas, and that outsourcing parts of the process may limit how younger designers develop judgment. Most still place greater trust in human design skills than in AI. See Methodology Coding Coding 1. Half of surveyed designers have shipped code Coding Coding 1. Half of surveyed designers have shipped code Coding Coding 1. Half of surveyed designers have shipped code Coding Coding 1. Half of surveyed designers have shipped code 50% of all respondents have pushed AI-generated code to production, including both product and brand designers. Only 20% of respondents identify as design engineers, underscoring how quickly coding capabilities have spread beyond traditionally technical roles. 76% of respondents say they’ve used an AI coding tool that augments developers, like Claude Code, Cursor, OpenAI Codex, and GitHub Copilot. If we include AI app builders like Lovable and Replit, that jumps to 85%. Early-stage designers are more likely to ship code at 68%, compared to 33% at publicly traded companies. 50% of all respondents have pushed AI-generated code to production, including both product and brand designers. Only 20% of respondents identify as design engineers, underscoring how quickly coding capabilities have spread beyond traditionally technical roles. 76% of respondents say they’ve used an AI coding tool that augments developers, like Claude Code, Cursor, OpenAI Codex, and GitHub Copilot. If we include AI app builders like Lovable and Replit, that jumps to 85%. Early-stage designers are more likely to ship code at 68%, compared to 33% at publicly traded companies. 50% of all respondents have pushed AI-generated code to production, including both product and brand designers. Only 20% of respondents identify as design engineers, underscoring how quickly coding capabilities have spread beyond traditionally technical roles. 76% of respondents say they’ve used an AI coding tool that augments developers, like Claude Code, Cursor, OpenAI Codex, and GitHub Copilot. If we include AI app builders like Lovable and Replit, that jumps to 85%. Early-stage designers are more likely to ship code at 68%, compared to 33% at publicly traded companies. 50% of all respondents have pushed AI-generated code to production, including both product and brand designers. Only 20% of respondents identify as design engineers, underscoring how quickly coding capabilities have spread beyond traditionally technical roles. 76% of respondents say they’ve used an AI coding tool that augments developers, like Claude Code, Cursor, OpenAI Codex, and GitHub Copilot. If we include AI app builders like Lovable and Replit, that jumps to 85%. Early-stage designers are more likely to ship code at 68%, compared to 33% at publicly traded companies. Designers who have shipped AI-generated code to production Early-stage 68 % Growth-stage 50 % Publicly traded 33 % Company stage Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Designers who have shipped AI-generated code to production Early-stage 68 % Growth-stage 50 % Publicly traded 33 % Company stage Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Designers who have shipped AI-generated code to production Early-stage 68 % Growth-stage 50 % Publicly traded 33 % Company stage Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Designers who have shipped AI-generated code to production Early-stage 68 % Growth-stage 50 % Publicly traded 33 % Company stage Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 “ With coding, you're closer to the metal. You don't have to make a picture of the design, get it back from the engineer 70% complete, then have feedback loops. You can just go right to the end point and make your vision. Nick Inzucchi Product Designer, Cursor “ “ With coding, you're closer to the metal. You don't have to make a picture of the design, get it back from the engineer 70% complete, then have feedback loops. You can just go right to the end point and make your vision. Nick Inzucchi Product Designer, Cursor “ “ With coding, you're closer to the metal. You don't have to make a picture of the design, get it back from the engineer 70% complete, then have feedback loops. You can just go right to the end point and make your vision. Nick Inzucchi Product Designer, Cursor “ With coding, you're closer to the metal. You don't have to make a picture of the design, get it back from the engineer 70% complete, then have feedback loops. You can just go right to the end point and make your vision. Nick Inzucchi Product Designer, Cursor “ Designer founders lead in shipping code Designer founders lead in shipping code Designer founders lead in shipping code Designer founders lead in shipping code Founders are the shippy-est group (70%) compared to ICs, managers, and other executives. Some of the strongest designers we know have left design teams entirely in favor of starting their own companies . We think designers are uniquely wired for this path, with a deep sensitivity to users, a bias toward making ideas tangible, and a high bar for quality. Those abilities—combined with AI tools—make it possible to go from idea to prototype to fully shipped product with far less engineering support than before. We’re also seeing that as many leaders as ICs have pushed code. With AI, they’re able to get in the weeds to quickly prototype an idea or drive a project forward. Nearly half of executives we surveyed are shipping, and in turn, they’re challenging what’s expected of leaders. Read more in Teams. Founders are the shippy-est group (70%) compared to ICs, managers, and other executives. Some of the strongest designers we know have left design teams entirely in favor of starting their own companies . We think designers are uniquely wired for this path, with a deep sensitivity to users, a bias toward making ideas tangible, and a high bar for quality. Those abilities—combined with AI tools—make it possible to go from idea to prototype to fully shipped product with far less engineering support than before. We’re also seeing that as many leaders as ICs have pushed code. With AI, they’re able to get in the weeds to quickly prototype an idea or drive a project forward. Nearly half of executives we surveyed are shipping, and in turn, they’re challenging what’s expected of leaders. Read more in Teams. Founders are the shippy-est group (70%) compared to ICs, managers, and other executives. Some of the strongest designers we know have left design teams entirely in favor of starting their own companies . We think designers are uniquely wired for this path, with a deep sensitivity to users, a bias toward making ideas tangible, and a high bar for quality. Those abilities—combined with AI tools—make it possible to go from idea to prototype to fully shipped product with far less engineering support than before. We’re also seeing that as many leaders as ICs have pushed code. With AI, they’re able to get in the weeds to quickly prototype an idea or drive a project forward. Nearly half of executives we surveyed are shipping, and in turn, they’re challenging what’s expected of leaders. Read more in Teams. Founders are the shippy-est group (70%) compared to ICs, managers, and other executives. Some of the strongest designers we know have left design teams entirely in favor of starting their own companies . We think designers are uniquely wired for this path, with a deep sensitivity to users, a bias toward making ideas tangible, and a high bar for quality. Those abilities—combined with AI tools—make it possible to go from idea to prototype to fully shipped product with far less engineering support than before. We’re also seeing that as many leaders as ICs have pushed code. With AI, they’re able to get in the weeds to quickly prototype an idea or drive a project forward. Nearly half of executives we surveyed are shipping, and in turn, they’re challenging what’s expected of leaders. Read more in Teams. Designers who have shipped AI-generated code to production (by role type) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Designers who have shipped AI-generated code to production (by role type) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Designers who have shipped AI-generated code to production (by role type) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Designers who have shipped AI-generated code to production (by role type) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 What are designers shipping? What are designers shipping? What are designers shipping? What are designers shipping? All types of code. They’re taking over frontend polish, building backend systems, integrating design system architecture, spinning up beta products, adding motion, and more. All types of code. They’re taking over frontend polish, building backend systems, integrating design system architecture, spinning up beta products, adding motion, and more. All types of code. They’re taking over frontend polish, building backend systems, integrating design system architecture, spinning up beta products, adding motion, and more. All types of code. They’re taking over frontend polish, building backend systems, integrating design system architecture, spinning up beta products, adding motion, and more. “ Designers can directly fix code issues. No more 'blocked on engineer' for front-end tweaks. Design system components—buttons, drop-down components, popovers—are auto-integrated in Cursor. David Stinnette Director of Product Design, Samsara “ Design QA has significantly changed. Previously, we would just create tickets and hand them off for the eng team to fix. But now, we can go in and address these smaller tickets (copy, spacing, change component, etc…) ourselves. Individual Contributor Growth-stage company “ Designers can directly fix code issues. No more 'blocked on engineer' for front-end tweaks. Design system components—buttons, drop-down components, popovers—are auto-integrated in Cursor. David Stinnette Director of Product Design, Samsara “ Design QA has significantly changed. Previously, we would just create tickets and hand them off for the eng team to fix. But now, we can go in and address these smaller tickets (copy, spacing, change component, etc…) ourselves. Individual Contributor Growth-stage company “ Designers can directly fix code issues. No more 'blocked on engineer' for front-end tweaks. Design system components—buttons, drop-down components, popovers—are auto-integrated in Cursor. David Stinnette Director of Product Design, Samsara “ Design QA has significantly changed. Previously, we would just create tickets and hand them off for the eng team to fix. But now, we can go in and address these smaller tickets (copy, spacing, change component, etc…) ourselves. Individual Contributor Growth-stage company “ Designers can directly fix code issues. No more 'blocked on engineer' for front-end tweaks. Design system components—buttons, drop-down components, popovers—are auto-integrated in Cursor. David Stinnette Director of Product Design, Samsara “ Design QA has significantly changed. Previously, we would just create tickets and hand them off for the eng team to fix. But now, we can go in and address these smaller tickets (copy, spacing, change component, etc…) ourselves. Individual Contributor Growth-stage company “ Using skills in Cursor, I have been able to integrate good motion design into my work. Individual contributor Early-stage startup “ Localization has become almost completely automated—from text phrasing and translation to pull requests and merges. Individual contributor Publicly traded company “ Using skills in Cursor, I have been able to integrate good motion design into my work. Individual contributor Early-stage startup “ Localization has become almost completely automated—from text phrasing and translation to pull requests and merges. Individual contributor Publicly traded company “ Using skills in Cursor, I have been able to integrate good motion design into my work. Individual contributor Early-stage startup “ Localization has become almost completely automated—from text phrasing and translation to pull requests and merges. Individual contributor Publicly traded company “ Using skills in Cursor, I have been able to integrate good motion design into my work. Individual contributor Early-stage startup “ Localization has become almost completely automated—from text phrasing and translation to pull requests and merges. Individual contributor Publicly traded company Note: This report includes quotes from our anonymous survey in March 2026. Respondents are identified only by their role level and the stage of the company they work for. Note: This report includes quotes from our anonymous survey in March 2026. Respondents are identified only by their role level and the stage of the company they work for. Note: This report includes quotes from our anonymous survey in March 2026. Respondents are identified only by their role level and the stage of the company they work for. Note: This report includes quotes from our anonymous survey in March 2026. Respondents are identified only by their role level and the stage of the company they work for. A designer who can bridge design and code is especially valuable on small teams, where that versatility accelerates shipping. But this isn’t limited to early-stage companies. As roles merge (more on that in Teams ), the expectation for technical fluency is rising across org sizes—without losing what designers uniquely bring: a strong point of view on what to build and how it should work. A designer who can bridge design and code is especially valuable on small teams, where that versatility accelerates shipping. But this isn’t limited to early-stage companies. As roles merge (more on that in Teams ), the expectation for technical fluency is rising across org sizes—without losing what designers uniquely bring: a strong point of view on what to build and how it should work. A designer who can bridge design and code is especially valuable on small teams, where that versatility accelerates shipping. But this isn’t limited to early-stage companies. As roles merge (more on that in Teams ), the expectation for technical fluency is rising across org sizes—without losing what designers uniquely bring: a strong point of view on what to build and how it should work. A designer who can bridge design and code is especially valuable on small teams, where that versatility accelerates shipping. But this isn’t limited to early-stage companies. As roles merge (more on that in Teams ), the expectation for technical fluency is rising across org sizes—without losing what designers uniquely bring: a strong point of view on what to build and how it should work. “ We see code as one more tool in the tool belt. I’m fairly agnostic. If you want to write all the front end code yourself; if you want to put up some PRs at the very end to polish; if you want to just use your knowledge of the code to collaborate better with engineers and be less intimidated—that’s all fine. But there are no excuses anymore for not being deeply involved in the final delivery process. Joel Lewenstein Head of Product Design, Anthropic “ “ We see code as one more tool in the tool belt. I’m fairly agnostic. If you want to write all the front end code yourself; if you want to put up some PRs at the very end to polish; if you want to just use your knowledge of the code to collaborate better with engineers and be less intimidated—that’s all fine. But there are no excuses anymore for not being deeply involved in the final delivery process. Joel Lewenstein Head of Product Design, Anthropic “ “ We see code as one more tool in the tool belt. I’m fairly agnostic. If you want to write all the front end code yourself; if you want to put up some PRs at the very end to polish; if you want to just use your knowledge of the code to collaborate better with engineers and be less intimidated—that’s all fine. But there are no excuses anymore for not being deeply involved in the final delivery process. Joel Lewenstein Head of Product Design, Anthropic “ We see code as one more tool in the tool belt. I’m fairly agnostic. If you want to write all the front end code yourself; if you want to put up some PRs at the very end to polish; if you want to just use your knowledge of the code to collaborate better with engineers and be less intimidated—that’s all fine. But there are no excuses anymore for not being deeply involved in the final delivery process. Joel Lewenstein Head of Product Design, Anthropic “ Automating code review for velocity Automating code review for velocity Automating code review for velocity Automating code review for velocity Across the companies we surveyed or spoke to, we heard a range of practices around code review or handoff. On the high-speed side, companies are using AI to assess the risk level of push requests (PRs) initiated by designers and automatically push low-risk changes. At other companies, designers are deploying to separate sandboxes for engineering review, or handing off prototypes for engineers to rebuild in production code. At DoorDash, the PR process has stayed the same, says Shali Nguyen, their Head of Consumer Experience Design. “Everything goes through GitHub PR approvals, and designers are held to the same production-quality bar as our engineering counterparts. We’ve added a design review step where designers are tagged to review and approve UI changes before they go to production.” Across the companies we surveyed or spoke to, we heard a range of practices around code review or handoff. On the high-speed side, companies are using AI to assess the risk level of push requests (PRs) initiated by designers and automatically push low-risk changes. At other companies, designers are deploying to separate sandboxes for engineering review, or handing off prototypes for engineers to rebuild in production code. At DoorDash, the PR process has stayed the same, says Shali Nguyen, their Head of Consumer Experience Design. “Everything goes through GitHub PR approvals, and designers are held to the same production-quality bar as our engineering counterparts. We’ve added a design review step where designers are tagged to review and approve UI changes before they go to production.” Across the companies we surveyed or spoke to, we heard a range of practices around code review or handoff. On the high-speed side, companies are using AI to assess the risk level of push requests (PRs) initiated by designers and automatically push low-risk changes. At other companies, designers are deploying to separate sandboxes for engineering review, or handing off prototypes for engineers to rebuild in production code. At DoorDash, the PR process has stayed the same, says Shali Nguyen, their Head of Consumer Experience Design. “Everything goes through GitHub PR approvals, and designers are held to the same production-quality bar as our engineering counterparts. We’ve added a design review step where designers are tagged to review and approve UI changes before they go to production.” Across the companies we surveyed or spoke to, we heard a range of practices around code review or handoff. On the high-speed side, companies are using AI to assess the risk level of push requests (PRs) initiated by designers and automatically push low-risk changes. At other companies, designers are deploying to separate sandboxes for engineering review, or handing off prototypes for engineers to rebuild in production code. At DoorDash, the PR process has stayed the same, says Shali Nguyen, their Head of Consumer Experience Design. “Everything goes through GitHub PR approvals, and designers are held to the same production-quality bar as our engineering counterparts. We’ve added a design review step where designers are tagged to review and approve UI changes before they go to production.” “ All of our designers have submitted production PRs. They’re also partnering with engineers on their teams to review code and build their technical skills. Hannah Hudson Head of Design, Watershed “ I’m floored by my literal ability to ship PRs … We do post-facto PR reviews with an AI risk scoring system and reviews from multiple AI bots, so I can also merge my own PRs with no oversight in many cases. I fix user issues while we’re discussing them and ship before the meeting ends. Brooks Solveig Staff Product Designer, Flux “ All of our designers have submitted production PRs. They’re also partnering with engineers on their teams to review code and build their technical skills. Hannah Hudson Head of Design, Watershed “ I’m floored by my literal ability to ship PRs … We do post-facto PR reviews with an AI risk scoring system and reviews from multiple AI bots, so I can also merge my own PRs with no oversight in many cases. I fix user issues while we’re discussing them and ship before the meeting ends. Brooks Solveig Staff Product Designer, Flux “ All of our designers have submitted production PRs. They’re also partnering with engineers on their teams to review code and build their technical skills. Hannah Hudson Head of Design, Watershed “ I’m floored by my literal ability to ship PRs … We do post-facto PR reviews with an AI risk scoring system and reviews from multiple AI bots, so I can also merge my own PRs with no oversight in many cases. I fix user issues while we’re discussing them and ship before the meeting ends. Brooks Solveig Staff Product Designer, Flux “ All of our designers have submitted production PRs. They’re also partnering with engineers on their teams to review code and build their technical skills. Hannah Hudson Head of Design, Watershed “ I’m floored by my literal ability to ship PRs … We do post-facto PR reviews with an AI risk scoring system and reviews from multiple AI bots, so I can also merge my own PRs with no oversight in many cases. I fix user issues while we’re discussing them and ship before the meeting ends. Brooks Solveig Staff Product Designer, Flux With so many more designers cultivating coding capabilities, what will happen to the “design engineer” title? We explore these themes of blurring roles in Teams . With so many more designers cultivating coding capabilities, what will happen to the “design engineer” title? We explore these themes of blurring roles in Teams . With so many more designers cultivating coding capabilities, what will happen to the “design engineer” title? We explore these themes of blurring roles in Teams . With so many more designers cultivating coding capabilities, what will happen to the “design engineer” title? We explore these themes of blurring roles in Teams . Prototyping Prototyping 2. Working prototypes are now shipping at every stage of the design process Prototyping Prototyping 2. Working prototypes are now shipping at every stage of the design process Prototyping Prototyping 2. Working prototypes are now shipping at every stage of the design process Prototyping Prototyping 2. Working prototypes are now shipping at every stage of the design process 0 % say their companies expect working prototypes 0 % say projects now start with working prototypes 0 % say their companies expect working prototypes 0 % say projects now start with working prototypes 0 % say their companies expect working prototypes 0 % say projects now start with working prototypes 0 % say their companies expect working prototypes 0 % say projects now start with working prototypes In our 2025 survey, we reported that prototyping was emerging as a key use for AI, and that designers were beginning to skip static mockups to go straight to vibe coding prototypes. This trend has continued. Now, prototypes are an expected design output for 43% of respondents. Some designers now do all their exploration work via coded prototypes rather than in a canvas, or they simply incorporate prototyping into a broader process that still includes mockups in Figma. Prototypes fill a gap in the classic set of design deliverables, because unlike mockups, they make it easy to evaluate states in a user flow. Designers we spoke with say that prototyping helps circulate ideas and align with engineering. Others expressed concern that prolific prototyping invites too many options—and that these options often look alluring enough to miss their poor design. In our 2025 survey, we reported that prototyping was emerging as a key use for AI, and that designers were beginning to skip static mockups to go straight to vibe coding prototypes. This trend has continued. Now, prototypes are an expected design output for 43% of respondents. Some designers now do all their exploration work via coded prototypes rather than in a canvas, or they simply incorporate prototyping into a broader process that still includes mockups in Figma. Prototypes fill a gap in the classic set of design deliverables, because unlike mockups, they make it easy to evaluate states in a user flow. Designers we spoke with say that prototyping helps circulate ideas and align with engineering. Others expressed concern that prolific prototyping invites too many options—and that these options often look alluring enough to miss their poor design. In our 2025 survey, we reported that prototyping was emerging as a key use for AI, and that designers were beginning to skip static mockups to go straight to vibe coding prototypes. This trend has continued. Now, prototypes are an expected design output for 43% of respondents. Some designers now do all their exploration work via coded prototypes rather than in a canvas, or they simply incorporate prototyping into a broader process that still includes mockups in Figma. Prototypes fill a gap in the classic set of design deliverables, because unlike mockups, they make it easy to evaluate states in a user flow. Designers we spoke with say that prototyping helps circulate ideas and align with engineering. Others expressed concern that prolific prototyping invites too many options—and that these options often look alluring enough to miss their poor design. In our 2025 survey, we reported that prototyping was emerging as a key use for AI, and that designers were beginning to skip static mockups to go straight to vibe coding prototypes. This trend has continued. Now, prototypes are an expected design output for 43% of respondents. Some designers now do all their exploration work via coded prototypes rather than in a canvas, or they simply incorporate prototyping into a broader process that still includes mockups in Figma. Prototypes fill a gap in the classic set of design deliverables, because unlike mockups, they make it easy to evaluate states in a user flow. Designers we spoke with say that prototyping helps circulate ideas and align with engineering. Others expressed concern that prolific prototyping invites too many options—and that these options often look alluring enough to miss their poor design. “ It could take two weeks to create a prototype, but it's not the thinking that takes two weeks. It's the effort of using tools to manually craft all of the details required. And if someone comes along and says 'you could have done that five degrees to the left,' it's difficult to adjust that experience. It's like a fired pot, you have to smash it and start again. With vibe-coded prototypes, the solution is malleable, takes a few hours to produce, and you benefit from all that wonderful collaborative energy. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ We’re building prototypes in the code base—in the actual product experience, with real customer data, so that designers can see how their design will perform in the context of an account. This is helpful to identify edge cases and see how the data flexes inside the designs they’re creating. David Stinnette Director of Product Design, Samsara “ Most of our design critiques have shifted to showcasing prototypes and looking at the user journey or story we're telling. Previously we'd zip around Figma looking at static screens and miss the connective tissue of the workflows. Less handoff meetings where we're throwing things over the fence... designers invite engineers and PMs into Builder/Lovable or publish Cursor to an internal site and get feedback live instead of handing over lossy static assets. Executive Publicly traded company “ It could take two weeks to create a prototype, but it's not the thinking that takes two weeks. It's the effort of using tools to manually craft all of the details required. And if someone comes along and says 'you could have done that five degrees to the left,' it's difficult to adjust that experience. It's like a fired pot, you have to smash it and start again. With vibe-coded prototypes, the solution is malleable, takes a few hours to produce, and you benefit from all that wonderful collaborative energy. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ We’re building prototypes in the code base—in the actual product experience, with real customer data, so that designers can see how their design will perform in the context of an account. This is helpful to identify edge cases and see how the data flexes inside the designs they’re creating. David Stinnette Director of Product Design, Samsara “ Most of our design critiques have shifted to showcasing prototypes and looking at the user journey or story we're telling. Previously we'd zip around Figma looking at static screens and miss the connective tissue of the workflows. Less handoff meetings where we're throwing things over the fence... designers invite engineers and PMs into Builder/Lovable or publish Cursor to an internal site and get feedback live instead of handing over lossy static assets. Executive Publicly traded company “ It could take two weeks to create a prototype, but it's not the thinking that takes two weeks. It's the effort of using tools to manually craft all of the details required. And if someone comes along and says 'you could have done that five degrees to the left,' it's difficult to adjust that experience. It's like a fired pot, you have to smash it and start again. With vibe-coded prototypes, the solution is malleable, takes a few hours to produce, and you benefit from all that wonderful collaborative energy. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ We’re building prototypes in the code base—in the actual product experience, with real customer data, so that designers can see how their design will perform in the context of an account. This is helpful to identify edge cases and see how the data flexes inside the designs they’re creating. David Stinnette Director of Product Design, Samsara “ Most of our design critiques have shifted to showcasing prototypes and looking at the user journey or story we're telling. Previously we'd zip around Figma looking at static screens and miss the connective tissue of the workflows. Less handoff meetings where we're throwing things over the fence... designers invite engineers and PMs into Builder/Lovable or publish Cursor to an internal site and get feedback live instead of handing over lossy static assets. Executive Publicly traded company “ It could take two weeks to create a prototype, but it's not the thinking that takes two weeks. It's the effort of using tools to manually craft all of the details required. And if someone comes along and says 'you could have done that five degrees to the left,' it's difficult to adjust that experience. It's like a fired pot, you have to smash it and start again. With vibe-coded prototypes, the solution is malleable, takes a few hours to produce, and you benefit from all that wonderful collaborative energy. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ We’re building prototypes in the code base—in the actual product experience, with real customer data, so that designers can see how their design will perform in the context of an account. This is helpful to identify edge cases and see how the data flexes inside the designs they’re creating. David Stinnette Director of Product Design, Samsara “ Most of our design critiques have shifted to showcasing prototypes and looking at the user journey or story we're telling. Previously we'd zip around Figma looking at static screens and miss the connective tissue of the workflows. Less handoff meetings where we're throwing things over the fence... designers invite engineers and PMs into Builder/Lovable or publish Cursor to an internal site and get feedback live instead of handing over lossy static assets. Executive Publicly traded company A closer look Making prototyping a team-wide capability At Anthropic, designer Nate Parrott built an internal tool where Claude generates interactive prototypes using the company's full design system. Designers use it to create features and explore animation options; non-designers like educators and salespeople use it to create visual artifacts they couldn't make before. "It's as if they were a designer all along and they were just blocked on this one technical skill," he says. Prototypes are shareable with a link, and feedback goes directly to Claude for revision. This internal tool became a precursor for Claude Design. A closer look Making prototyping a team-wide capability At Anthropic, designer Nate Parrott built an internal tool where Claude generates interactive prototypes using the company's full design system. Designers use it to create features and explore animation options; non-designers like educators and salespeople use it to create visual artifacts they couldn't make before. "It's as if they were a designer all along and they were just blocked on this one technical skill," he says. Prototypes are shareable with a link, and feedback goes directly to Claude for revision. This internal tool became a precursor for Claude Design. A closer look Making prototyping a team-wide capability At Anthropic, designer Nate Parrott built an internal tool where Claude generates interactive prototypes using the company's full design system. Designers use it to create features and explore animation options; non-designers like educators and salespeople use it to create visual artifacts they couldn't make before. "It's as if they were a designer all along and they were just blocked on this one technical skill," he says. Prototypes are shareable with a link, and feedback goes directly to Claude for revision. This internal tool became a precursor for Claude Design. A closer look Making prototyping a team-wide capability At Anthropic, designer Nate Parrott built an internal tool where Claude generates interactive prototypes using the company's full design system. Designers use it to create features and explore animation options; non-designers like educators and salespeople use it to create visual artifacts they couldn't make before. "It's as if they were a designer all along and they were just blocked on this one technical skill," he says. Prototypes are shareable with a link, and feedback goes directly to Claude for revision. This internal tool became a precursor for Claude Design. Speed vs. quality Speed vs. quality 3. Some say AI’s speed removes design bottlenecks, others worry about cutting corners Speed vs. quality Speed vs. quality 3. Some say AI’s speed removes design bottlenecks, others worry about cutting corners Speed vs. quality Speed vs. quality 3. Some say AI’s speed removes design bottlenecks, others worry about cutting corners Speed vs. quality Speed vs. quality 3. Some say AI’s speed removes design bottlenecks, others worry about cutting corners Designers are faster with AI. But are they better? And who sets the quality bar when everyone—including PMs and engineers—can produce plausible-looking interfaces? When we asked respondents about the impact of AI on various aspects of their design work, they said their speed, efficiency, and creative range have benefited the most. Designers are faster with AI. But are they better? And who sets the quality bar when everyone—including PMs and engineers—can produce plausible-looking interfaces? When we asked respondents about the impact of AI on various aspects of their design work, they said their speed, efficiency, and creative range have benefited the most. Designers are faster with AI. But are they better? And who sets the quality bar when everyone—including PMs and engineers—can produce plausible-looking interfaces? When we asked respondents about the impact of AI on various aspects of their design work, they said their speed, efficiency, and creative range have benefited the most. Designers are faster with AI. But are they better? And who sets the quality bar when everyone—including PMs and engineers—can produce plausible-looking interfaces? When we asked respondents about the impact of AI on various aspects of their design work, they said their speed, efficiency, and creative range have benefited the most. AI’s impact on aspects of designers’ work Improved Decreased Speed and efficiency Creative range and exploration Personal job satisfaction Output quality Confidence in design decisions Sense of ownership over your work Collaboration with teammates Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 AI’s impact on aspects of designers’ work Improved Decreased Speed and efficiency Creative range and exploration Personal job satisfaction Output quality Confidence in design decisions Sense of ownership over your work Collaboration with teammates Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 AI’s impact on aspects of designers’ work Improved Decreased Speed and efficiency Creative range and exploration Personal job satisfaction Output quality Confidence in design decisions Sense of ownership over your work Collaboration with teammates Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 AI’s impact on aspects of designers’ work Improved Decreased Speed and efficiency Creative range and exploration Personal job satisfaction Output quality Confidence in design decisions Sense of ownership over your work Collaboration with teammates Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 But when we asked survey respondents what they’d miss most if they lost access to AI tomorrow, they were more likely to say they’d miss the ability to build and the breadth of creative expression. Designers have told us they’re now more technically empowered to: Implement more frontend polish Try more complex designs Get up to speed on a new industry Improve their accessibility knowledge Synthesize disparate data sources to make informed decisions Complete a rebrand in a week And for resource-strapped companies in particular, AI has unlocked new levels of capability and quality that were too expensive to reach in the past. But when we asked survey respondents what they’d miss most if they lost access to AI tomorrow, they were more likely to say they’d miss the ability to build and the breadth of creative expression. Designers have told us they’re now more technically empowered to: Implement more frontend polish Try more complex designs Get up to speed on a new industry Improve their accessibility knowledge Synthesize disparate data sources to make informed decisions Complete a rebrand in a week And for resource-strapped companies in particular, AI has unlocked new levels of capability and quality that were too expensive to reach in the past. But when we asked survey respondents what they’d miss most if they lost access to AI tomorrow, they were more likely to say they’d miss the ability to build and the breadth of creative expression. Designers have told us they’re now more technically empowered to: Implement more frontend polish Try more complex designs Get up to speed on a new industry Improve their accessibility knowledge Synthesize disparate data sources to make informed decisions Complete a rebrand in a week And for resource-strapped companies in particular, AI has unlocked new levels of capability and quality that were too expensive to reach in the past. But when we asked survey respondents what they’d miss most if they lost access to AI tomorrow, they were more likely to say they’d miss the ability to build and the breadth of creative expression. Designers have told us they’re now more technically empowered to: Implement more frontend polish Try more complex designs Get up to speed on a new industry Improve their accessibility knowledge Synthesize disparate data sources to make informed decisions Complete a rebrand in a week And for resource-strapped companies in particular, AI has unlocked new levels of capability and quality that were too expensive to reach in the past. Keeping pace Keeping pace Keeping pace Keeping pace Now that product teams can build features in hours instead of weeks, designers are feeling even more outnumbered by PMs and engineers—and are stretched as they provide quality design guardrails for their prolific teams. So what are designers doing about it? Now that product teams can build features in hours instead of weeks, designers are feeling even more outnumbered by PMs and engineers—and are stretched as they provide quality design guardrails for their prolific teams. So what are designers doing about it? Now that product teams can build features in hours instead of weeks, designers are feeling even more outnumbered by PMs and engineers—and are stretched as they provide quality design guardrails for their prolific teams. So what are designers doing about it? Now that product teams can build features in hours instead of weeks, designers are feeling even more outnumbered by PMs and engineers—and are stretched as they provide quality design guardrails for their prolific teams. So what are designers doing about it? Encoding quality into tools: They’re finding creative ways to enable a quality bar for teammates that have stepped into designer territory (40% of respondents say their PMs and engineers are doing more design work—read more in Teams). Designers are preprogramming design system components and brand guidelines into coding tools so that anyone producing interfaces starts from a shared quality baseline. Prioritizing differently: They’re rethinking how to allocate their time to projects that would most benefit from deep design thinking—like ambiguous UX problems or connecting with user needs. Moving from one design process to many: Designers are approaching each project differently, considering what type of process to use depending on timeline and output needs. Encoding quality into tools: They’re finding creative ways to enable a quality bar for teammates that have stepped into designer territory (40% of respondents say their PMs and engineers are doing more design work—read more in Teams). Designers are preprogramming design system components and brand guidelines into coding tools so that anyone producing interfaces starts from a shared quality baseline. Prioritizing differently: They’re rethinking how to allocate their time to projects that would most benefit from deep design thinking—like ambiguous UX problems or connecting with user needs. Moving from one design process to many: Designers are approaching each project differently, considering what type of process to use depending on timeline and output needs. Encoding quality into tools: They’re finding creative ways to enable a quality bar for teammates that have stepped into designer territory (40% of respondents say their PMs and engineers are doing more design work—read more in Teams). Designers are preprogramming design system components and brand guidelines into coding tools so that anyone producing interfaces starts from a shared quality baseline. Prioritizing differently: They’re rethinking how to allocate their time to projects that would most benefit from deep design thinking—like ambiguous UX problems or connecting with user needs. Moving from one design process to many: Designers are approaching each project differently, considering what type of process to use depending on timeline and output needs. Encoding quality into tools: They’re finding creative ways to enable a quality bar for teammates that have stepped into designer territory (40% of respondents say their PMs and engineers are doing more design work—read more in Teams). Designers are preprogramming design system components and brand guidelines into coding tools so that anyone producing interfaces starts from a shared quality baseline. Prioritizing differently: They’re rethinking how to allocate their time to projects that would most benefit from deep design thinking—like ambiguous UX problems or connecting with user needs. Moving from one design process to many: Designers are approaching each project differently, considering what type of process to use depending on timeline and output needs. “ We really do think more about polish because we can deal with implementing it in a fairly low-cost way. Having opinionated taste is no longer a luxury that we need to balance. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ Since engineering capacity has skyrocketed, we're forced to think about how to do more with less. How do we put guardrails on product experiences that meet a threshold of quality? How do we identify ambiguous problems that need UX thinking versus "commodity" features that have plenty of precedence and don't need differentiation? Manager/Lead Publicly traded company “ We really do think more about polish because we can deal with implementing it in a fairly low-cost way. Having opinionated taste is no longer a luxury that we need to balance. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ Since engineering capacity has skyrocketed, we're forced to think about how to do more with less. How do we put guardrails on product experiences that meet a threshold of quality? How do we identify ambiguous problems that need UX thinking versus "commodity" features that have plenty of precedence and don't need differentiation? Manager/Lead Publicly traded company “ We really do think more about polish because we can deal with implementing it in a fairly low-cost way. Having opinionated taste is no longer a luxury that we need to balance. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ Since engineering capacity has skyrocketed, we're forced to think about how to do more with less. How do we put guardrails on product experiences that meet a threshold of quality? How do we identify ambiguous problems that need UX thinking versus "commodity" features that have plenty of precedence and don't need differentiation? Manager/Lead Publicly traded company “ We really do think more about polish because we can deal with implementing it in a fairly low-cost way. Having opinionated taste is no longer a luxury that we need to balance. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ Since engineering capacity has skyrocketed, we're forced to think about how to do more with less. How do we put guardrails on product experiences that meet a threshold of quality? How do we identify ambiguous problems that need UX thinking versus "commodity" features that have plenty of precedence and don't need differentiation? Manager/Lead Publicly traded company The designers who’ll be most valuable in five years aren’t the ones who used AI tools earliest. It’s the ones who maintained the clearest point of view on what good actually is while everyone else was optimizing for speed. — Daniel Bezos (@pixeldahn) March 8, 2026 The designers who’ll be most valuable in five years aren’t the ones who used AI tools earliest. It’s the ones who maintained the clearest point of view on what good actually is while everyone else was optimizing for speed. — Daniel Bezos (@pixeldahn) March 8, 2026 The designers who’ll be most valuable in five years aren’t the ones who used AI tools earliest. It’s the ones who maintained the clearest point of view on what good actually is while everyone else was optimizing for speed. — Daniel Bezos (@pixeldahn) March 8, 2026 The designers who’ll be most valuable in five years aren’t the ones who used AI tools earliest. It’s the ones who maintained the clearest point of view on what good actually is while everyone else was optimizing for speed. — Daniel Bezos (@pixeldahn) March 8, 2026 Does speed support more exploration or less? Does speed support more exploration or less? Does speed support more exploration or less? Does speed support more exploration or less? Many designers told us AI helps them iterate faster to match engineering’s pace. But not without cost—we also heard that code forces commitment too early and that speed compresses the open-ended phase where designers develop their judgment. Many designers told us AI helps them iterate faster to match engineering’s pace. But not without cost—we also heard that code forces commitment too early and that speed compresses the open-ended phase where designers develop their judgment. Many designers told us AI helps them iterate faster to match engineering’s pace. But not without cost—we also heard that code forces commitment too early and that speed compresses the open-ended phase where designers develop their judgment. Many designers told us AI helps them iterate faster to match engineering’s pace. But not without cost—we also heard that code forces commitment too early and that speed compresses the open-ended phase where designers develop their judgment. “ Once a problem is identified, you can generate a million ways you could potentially solve that problem to see if any of them are even remotely good. Hannah Hudson Head of Design, Watershed “ [AI] generates ideas so much faster than me. It is also more willing to generate bad ideas than my team. Executive Publicly traded company “ We used to sit together and brainstorm user flows and app flows from scratch … manually exploring multiple possibilities, eliminating each step by step. Now, our ritual has shifted, and we start by validating and evolving explorations proposed by AI instead of beginning from a blank slate. Individual contributor Agency “ Once a problem is identified, you can generate a million ways you could potentially solve that problem to see if any of them are even remotely good. Hannah Hudson Head of Design, Watershed “ [AI] generates ideas so much faster than me. It is also more willing to generate bad ideas than my team. Executive Publicly traded company “ We used to sit together and brainstorm user flows and app flows from scratch … manually exploring multiple possibilities, eliminating each step by step. Now, our ritual has shifted, and we start by validating and evolving explorations proposed by AI instead of beginning from a blank slate. Individual contributor Agency “ Once a problem is identified, you can generate a million ways you could potentially solve that problem to see if any of them are even remotely good. Hannah Hudson Head of Design, Watershed “ [AI] generates ideas so much faster than me. It is also more willing to generate bad ideas than my team. Executive Publicly traded company “ We used to sit together and brainstorm user flows and app flows from scratch … manually exploring multiple possibilities, eliminating each step by step. Now, our ritual has shifted, and we start by validating and evolving explorations proposed by AI instead of beginning from a blank slate. Individual contributor Agency “ Once a problem is identified, you can generate a million ways you could potentially solve that problem to see if any of them are even remotely good. Hannah Hudson Head of Design, Watershed “ [AI] generates ideas so much faster than me. It is also more willing to generate bad ideas than my team. Executive Publicly traded company “ We used to sit together and brainstorm user flows and app flows from scratch … manually exploring multiple possibilities, eliminating each step by step. Now, our ritual has shifted, and we start by validating and evolving explorations proposed by AI instead of beginning from a blank slate. Individual contributor Agency “ Code forces you to commit to your first idea and go deep—at the expense of the broad exploration that Figma made easy. The breadth of exploration is the limitation I feel most. Nick Inzucchi Product Designer, Cursor “ It's very easy to put my prompt in, get an answer back, do a quick shuffle, and think: This is great. Job done. We don't really want designers to do that. We want people to have radically divergent concepts, so we can invest our time debating the space in the middle. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ To me, design is the planning stage and code is the implementation stage. I don't like mixing those two because you have different goals in those workflows. The planning goal is finding clarity on what you're doing or what you want to build. Execution is about making it work well. If you try to combine them, it's not ideal for either. Karri Saarinen Co-founder and CEO, Linear “ Code forces you to commit to your first idea and go deep—at the expense of the broad exploration that Figma made easy. The breadth of exploration is the limitation I feel most. Nick Inzucchi Product Designer, Cursor “ It's very easy to put my prompt in, get an answer back, do a quick shuffle, and think: This is great. Job done. We don't really want designers to do that. We want people to have radically divergent concepts, so we can invest our time debating the space in the middle. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ To me, design is the planning stage and code is the implementation stage. I don't like mixing those two because you have different goals in those workflows. The planning goal is finding clarity on what you're doing or what you want to build. Execution is about making it work well. If you try to combine them, it's not ideal for either. Karri Saarinen Co-founder and CEO, Linear “ Code forces you to commit to your first idea and go deep—at the expense of the broad exploration that Figma made easy. The breadth of exploration is the limitation I feel most. Nick Inzucchi Product Designer, Cursor “ It's very easy to put my prompt in, get an answer back, do a quick shuffle, and think: This is great. Job done. We don't really want designers to do that. We want people to have radically divergent concepts, so we can invest our time debating the space in the middle. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ To me, design is the planning stage and code is the implementation stage. I don't like mixing those two because you have different goals in those workflows. The planning goal is finding clarity on what you're doing or what you want to build. Execution is about making it work well. If you try to combine them, it's not ideal for either. Karri Saarinen Co-founder and CEO, Linear “ Code forces you to commit to your first idea and go deep—at the expense of the broad exploration that Figma made easy. The breadth of exploration is the limitation I feel most. Nick Inzucchi Product Designer, Cursor “ It's very easy to put my prompt in, get an answer back, do a quick shuffle, and think: This is great. Job done. We don't really want designers to do that. We want people to have radically divergent concepts, so we can invest our time debating the space in the middle. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ To me, design is the planning stage and code is the implementation stage. I don't like mixing those two because you have different goals in those workflows. The planning goal is finding clarity on what you're doing or what you want to build. Execution is about making it work well. If you try to combine them, it's not ideal for either. Karri Saarinen Co-founder and CEO, Linear As product development speeds up with AI, design teams that don’t keep up may risk falling behind or losing influence. They’re balancing this with the cost of letting go of crucial parts of the design process, and they’re finding middle ground by learning to work differently with their counterparts, which we explore in Teams . Joel Lewenstein, Head of Product Design at Anthropic, says, “There’s a socially interesting dimension, which is that if a feature can now be built in 48 hours, asking for a week-long classic design sprint to explore divergently is a huge ask. “At Anthropic, we’ve started to compress design exploration with new internal tools that generate many UI variations, index user research across the company, and enable rapid dogfooding. But there’s still an ineffable, slow part of exploration time that we need to protect—going for a walk, letting the brain relax, letting the neurons connect—and that is a work in progress.” As product development speeds up with AI, design teams that don’t keep up may risk falling behind or losing influence. They’re balancing this with the cost of letting go of crucial parts of the design process, and they’re finding middle ground by learning to work differently with their counterparts, which we explore in Teams . Joel Lewenstein, Head of Product Design at Anthropic, says, “There’s a socially interesting dimension, which is that if a feature can now be built in 48 hours, asking for a week-long classic design sprint to explore divergently is a huge ask. “At Anthropic, we’ve started to compress design exploration with new internal tools that generate many UI variations, index user research across the company, and enable rapid dogfooding. But there’s still an ineffable, slow part of exploration time that we need to protect—going for a walk, letting the brain relax, letting the neurons connect—and that is a work in progress.” As product development speeds up with AI, design teams that don’t keep up may risk falling behind or losing influence. They’re balancing this with the cost of letting go of crucial parts of the design process, and they’re finding middle ground by learning to work differently with their counterparts, which we explore in Teams . Joel Lewenstein, Head of Product Design at Anthropic, says, “There’s a socially interesting dimension, which is that if a feature can now be built in 48 hours, asking for a week-long classic design sprint to explore divergently is a huge ask. “At Anthropic, we’ve started to compress design exploration with new internal tools that generate many UI variations, index user research across the company, and enable rapid dogfooding. But there’s still an ineffable, slow part of exploration time that we need to protect—going for a walk, letting the brain relax, letting the neurons connect—and that is a work in progress.” As product development speeds up with AI, design teams that don’t keep up may risk falling behind or losing influence. They’re balancing this with the cost of letting go of crucial parts of the design process, and they’re finding middle ground by learning to work differently with their counterparts, which we explore in Teams . Joel Lewenstein, Head of Product Design at Anthropic, says, “There’s a socially interesting dimension, which is that if a feature can now be built in 48 hours, asking for a week-long classic design sprint to explore divergently is a huge ask. “At Anthropic, we’ve started to compress design exploration with new internal tools that generate many UI variations, index user research across the company, and enable rapid dogfooding. But there’s still an ineffable, slow part of exploration time that we need to protect—going for a walk, letting the brain relax, letting the neurons connect—and that is a work in progress.” IN PRACTICE Don’t outsource your understanding Karri Saarinen, CEO of Linear, puts it simply : “The hard part of design is rarely generating the form. It is understanding the problem well enough to know what and how something should exist at all.” AI feels most impressive when you don’t know much about a subject or don’t have a clear sense of what you want. But when you do have a strong POV on how something should look or feel, it becomes harder to use AI. Matching what’s in your head is rarely a one-shot process, and prompting better, or repeatedly, generally isn’t the right solution. Before jumping into prompting, write down what you’re trying to get to, or start with a tool where you can design visually and make changes as you go. Whichever way you start, get clear on user needs, constraints, and edge cases first. IN PRACTICE Don’t outsource your understanding Karri Saarinen, CEO of Linear, puts it simply : “The hard part of design is rarely generating the form. It is understanding the problem well enough to know what and how something should exist at all.” AI feels most impressive when you don’t know much about a subject or don’t have a clear sense of what you want. But when you do have a strong POV on how something should look or feel, it becomes harder to use AI. Matching what’s in your head is rarely a one-shot process, and prompting better, or repeatedly, generally isn’t the right solution. Before jumping into prompting, write down what you’re trying to get to, or start with a tool where you can design visually and make changes as you go. Whichever way you start, get clear on user needs, constraints, and edge cases first. IN PRACTICE Don’t outsource your understanding Karri Saarinen, CEO of Linear, puts it simply : “The hard part of design is rarely generating the form. It is understanding the problem well enough to know what and how something should exist at all.” AI feels most impressive when you don’t know much about a subject or don’t have a clear sense of what you want. But when you do have a strong POV on how something should look or feel, it becomes harder to use AI. Matching what’s in your head is rarely a one-shot process, and prompting better, or repeatedly, generally isn’t the right solution. Before jumping into prompting, write down what you’re trying to get to, or start with a tool where you can design visually and make changes as you go. Whichever way you start, get clear on user needs, constraints, and edge cases first. IN PRACTICE Don’t outsource your understanding Karri Saarinen, CEO of Linear, puts it simply : “The hard part of design is rarely generating the form. It is understanding the problem well enough to know what and how something should exist at all.” AI feels most impressive when you don’t know much about a subject or don’t have a clear sense of what you want. But when you do have a strong POV on how something should look or feel, it becomes harder to use AI. Matching what’s in your head is rarely a one-shot process, and prompting better, or repeatedly, generally isn’t the right solution. Before jumping into prompting, write down what you’re trying to get to, or start with a tool where you can design visually and make changes as you go. Whichever way you start, get clear on user needs, constraints, and edge cases first. Human skills vs. AI Human skills vs. AI 4. Designers value their taste, judgment, and user understanding over AI Human skills vs. AI Human skills vs. AI 4. Designers value their taste, judgment, and user understanding over AI Human skills vs. AI Human skills vs. AI 4. Designers value their taste, judgment, and user understanding over AI Human skills vs. AI Human skills vs. AI 4. Designers value their taste, judgment, and user understanding over AI For about 80% of respondents, AI assists but doesn’t replace their own quality meter, final visual polish skills, and creative direction. 60–70% of designers also reported that they still rely on their judgment for understanding user needs and context, defining the problem, storytelling, systems thinking, and design architecture. For about 80% of respondents, AI assists but doesn’t replace their own quality meter, final visual polish skills, and creative direction. 60–70% of designers also reported that they still rely on their judgment for understanding user needs and context, defining the problem, storytelling, systems thinking, and design architecture. For about 80% of respondents, AI assists but doesn’t replace their own quality meter, final visual polish skills, and creative direction. 60–70% of designers also reported that they still rely on their judgment for understanding user needs and context, defining the problem, storytelling, systems thinking, and design architecture. For about 80% of respondents, AI assists but doesn’t replace their own quality meter, final visual polish skills, and creative direction. 60–70% of designers also reported that they still rely on their judgment for understanding user needs and context, defining the problem, storytelling, systems thinking, and design architecture. Where designers most rely on their own craft and judgment (over AI) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Where designers most rely on their own craft and judgment (over AI) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Where designers most rely on their own craft and judgment (over AI) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Where designers most rely on their own craft and judgment (over AI) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 “ It's like a burrito that took a minute and a half to microwave. I am happy with it, because I am in a rush and I am thrilled it’s ready so fast. But is it actually good? Heck no. This same phenomenon is what leads to a ton of slop. It’s easy to get enamored by a decent one shot and overlook the flaws. A good practice is to ask yourself, would I be happy with this if it took me a week to make this? If the answer is no, it’s probably worth some further prompting and prodding to make it something you’re truly proud of. Katie Dill Head of Design, Stripe “ Without the weight of tech debt, brand/interface value, and the complexity that comes with mature, post-PMF product, it's easy to claim 'Figma is dead,' and go all-in on prototypes and gen-AI front-end. But at scale, or when dealing with mature problems, I've found that there's still no substitute for human innovation in UI design, and an enduring need for a design environment where we own the pixel-level choices, and this has been consistent when speaking with other leaders in similar positions. Executive Growth-stage company “ It's like a burrito that took a minute and a half to microwave. I am happy with it, because I am in a rush and I am thrilled it’s ready so fast. But is it actually good? Heck no. This same phenomenon is what leads to a ton of slop. It’s easy to get enamored by a decent one shot and overlook the flaws. A good practice is to ask yourself, would I be happy with this if it took me a week to make this? If the answer is no, it’s probably worth some further prompting and prodding to make it something you’re truly proud of. Katie Dill Head of Design, Stripe “ Without the weight of tech debt, brand/interface value, and the complexity that comes with mature, post-PMF product, it's easy to claim 'Figma is dead,' and go all-in on prototypes and gen-AI front-end. But at scale, or when dealing with mature problems, I've found that there's still no substitute for human innovation in UI design, and an enduring need for a design environment where we own the pixel-level choices, and this has been consistent when speaking with other leaders in similar positions. Executive Growth-stage company “ It's like a burrito that took a minute and a half to microwave. I am happy with it, because I am in a rush and I am thrilled it’s ready so fast. But is it actually good? Heck no. This same phenomenon is what leads to a ton of slop. It’s easy to get enamored by a decent one shot and overlook the flaws. A good practice is to ask yourself, would I be happy with this if it took me a week to make this? If the answer is no, it’s probably worth some further prompting and prodding to make it something you’re truly proud of. Katie Dill Head of Design, Stripe “ Without the weight of tech debt, brand/interface value, and the complexity that comes with mature, post-PMF product, it's easy to claim 'Figma is dead,' and go all-in on prototypes and gen-AI front-end. But at scale, or when dealing with mature problems, I've found that there's still no substitute for human innovation in UI design, and an enduring need for a design environment where we own the pixel-level choices, and this has been consistent when speaking with other leaders in similar positions. Executive Growth-stage company “ It's like a burrito that took a minute and a half to microwave. I am happy with it, because I am in a rush and I am thrilled it’s ready so fast. But is it actually good? Heck no. This same phenomenon is what leads to a ton of slop. It’s easy to get enamored by a decent one shot and overlook the flaws. A good practice is to ask yourself, would I be happy with this if it took me a week to make this? If the answer is no, it’s probably worth some further prompting and prodding to make it something you’re truly proud of. Katie Dill Head of Design, Stripe “ Without the weight of tech debt, brand/interface value, and the complexity that comes with mature, post-PMF product, it's easy to claim 'Figma is dead,' and go all-in on prototypes and gen-AI front-end. But at scale, or when dealing with mature problems, I've found that there's still no substitute for human innovation in UI design, and an enduring need for a design environment where we own the pixel-level choices, and this has been consistent when speaking with other leaders in similar positions. Executive Growth-stage company Ownership of AI output Ownership of AI output Ownership of AI output Ownership of AI output Only 9% of respondents feel that it’s genuinely difficult to separate AI’s input from theirs. Many more feel they have full ownership (40%) over AI-produced work—that the direction and judgment still comes from them—or that it’s “mostly” theirs (43%). Only 9% of respondents feel that it’s genuinely difficult to separate AI’s input from theirs. Many more feel they have full ownership (40%) over AI-produced work—that the direction and judgment still comes from them—or that it’s “mostly” theirs (43%). Only 9% of respondents feel that it’s genuinely difficult to separate AI’s input from theirs. Many more feel they have full ownership (40%) over AI-produced work—that the direction and judgment still comes from them—or that it’s “mostly” theirs (43%). Only 9% of respondents feel that it’s genuinely difficult to separate AI’s input from theirs. Many more feel they have full ownership (40%) over AI-produced work—that the direction and judgment still comes from them—or that it’s “mostly” theirs (43%). How designers feel about ownership of the AI-assisted work they produce Mostly mine: But I'm aware AI shaped some outcomes I didn't fully control Full ownership: The direction and judgment are mine, AI just executes Shared: It's genuinely hard to separate my contribution from the tool's Uncertain: I'm still working out how I think about this Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How designers feel about ownership of the AI-assisted work they produce Mostly mine: But I'm aware AI shaped some outcomes I didn't fully control Full ownership: The direction and judgment are mine, AI just executes Shared: It's genuinely hard to separate my contribution from the tool's Uncertain: I'm still working out how I think about this Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How designers feel about ownership of the AI-assisted work they produce Mostly mine: But I'm aware AI shaped some outcomes I didn't fully control Full ownership: The direction and judgment are mine, AI just executes Shared: It's genuinely hard to separate my contribution from the tool's Uncertain: I'm still working out how I think about this Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How designers feel about ownership of the AI-assisted work they produce Mostly mine: But I'm aware AI shaped some outcomes I didn't fully control Full ownership: The direction and judgment are mine, AI just executes Shared: It's genuinely hard to separate my contribution from the tool's Uncertain: I'm still working out how I think about this Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Ryan Mather, Designer at Anthropic, says, “AI is powerful because the tool itself can think and experiment. It's up to the person holding the tool to decide where to direct that. Every good designer has a point of view, and AI is like a point-of-view amplifier." Ryan Mather, Designer at Anthropic, says, “AI is powerful because the tool itself can think and experiment. It's up to the person holding the tool to decide where to direct that. Every good designer has a point of view, and AI is like a point-of-view amplifier." Ryan Mather, Designer at Anthropic, says, “AI is powerful because the tool itself can think and experiment. It's up to the person holding the tool to decide where to direct that. Every good designer has a point of view, and AI is like a point-of-view amplifier." Ryan Mather, Designer at Anthropic, says, “AI is powerful because the tool itself can think and experiment. It's up to the person holding the tool to decide where to direct that. Every good designer has a point of view, and AI is like a point-of-view amplifier." Joy at work Joy at work 5. Designers who build are feeling more creative and capable Joy at work Joy at work 5. Designers who build are feeling more creative and capable Joy at work Joy at work 5. Designers who build are feeling more creative and capable Joy at work Joy at work 5. Designers who build are feeling more creative and capable We were curious how designers feel about their work as AI usage grows. 53% of overall respondents report a positively transformed relationship with their work as a result of AI. 18% say it has decreased their work satisfaction. We were curious how designers feel about their work as AI usage grows. 53% of overall respondents report a positively transformed relationship with their work as a result of AI. 18% say it has decreased their work satisfaction. We were curious how designers feel about their work as AI usage grows. 53% of overall respondents report a positively transformed relationship with their work as a result of AI. 18% say it has decreased their work satisfaction. We were curious how designers feel about their work as AI usage grows. 53% of overall respondents report a positively transformed relationship with their work as a result of AI. 18% say it has decreased their work satisfaction. How AI has affected designers’ job satisfaction Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How AI has affected designers’ job satisfaction Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How AI has affected designers’ job satisfaction Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How AI has affected designers’ job satisfaction Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Design lately has been feeling so fun, and I’ve been trying to figure out why. From chatting with the team I feel like it’s because we can do so much now. It feels a bit surreal how much freedom designers have to shape the product and their roles. — Meaghan (@meag_han_c) April 13, 2026 Design lately has been feeling so fun, and I’ve been trying to figure out why. From chatting with the team I feel like it’s because we can do so much now. It feels a bit surreal how much freedom designers have to shape the product and their roles. — Meaghan (@meag_han_c) April 13, 2026 Design lately has been feeling so fun, and I’ve been trying to figure out why. From chatting with the team I feel like it’s because we can do so much now. It feels a bit surreal how much freedom designers have to shape the product and their roles. — Meaghan (@meag_han_c) April 13, 2026 Design lately has been feeling so fun, and I’ve been trying to figure out why. From chatting with the team I feel like it’s because we can do so much now. It feels a bit surreal how much freedom designers have to shape the product and their roles. — Meaghan (@meag_han_c) April 13, 2026 This trend was even stronger for designers who “build.” We noticed that designers who ship code or create prototypes with AI were twice as likely to feel more creative and capable at work—while also feeling that the quality bar is higher. The Spring 2026 UX Tools State of Prototyping study echoes this finding. This trend was even stronger for designers who “build.” We noticed that designers who ship code or create prototypes with AI were twice as likely to feel more creative and capable at work—while also feeling that the quality bar is higher. The Spring 2026 UX Tools State of Prototyping study echoes this finding. This trend was even stronger for designers who “build.” We noticed that designers who ship code or create prototypes with AI were twice as likely to feel more creative and capable at work—while also feeling that the quality bar is higher. The Spring 2026 UX Tools State of Prototyping study echoes this finding. This trend was even stronger for designers who “build.” We noticed that designers who ship code or create prototypes with AI were twice as likely to feel more creative and capable at work—while also feeling that the quality bar is higher. The Spring 2026 UX Tools State of Prototyping study echoes this finding. Compared to before AI, designers now feel… Designers who code & prototype Designers who don't More creative and capable Much more confident in their tool stack That they face a higher quality bar Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Compared to before AI, designers now feel… Designers who code & prototype Designers who don't More creative and capable Much more confident in their tool stack That they face a higher quality bar Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Compared to before AI, designers now feel… Designers who code & prototype Designers who don't More creative and capable Much more confident in their tool stack That they face a higher quality bar Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Compared to before AI, designers now feel… Designers who code & prototype Designers who don't More creative and capable Much more confident in their tool stack That they face a higher quality bar Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 “ What excites me the most is pushing a higher product quality bar via my own PRs and having the tools to explore and debate scope and feasibility (so I can push for more complete UX flows, accessibility, component improvements). Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ I'm having way more fun with the work. I can spontaneously follow my curiosity into new domains like frontend code and shaders, instead of getting blocked by what I haven’t had time to learn yet. Jason Marder Independent designer “ The tools were more creative than anticipated. With Claude Code and Cursor, I've been surprised by how they can riff off ideas I have and show me things I didn't know were possible with HTML/CSS/JavaScript. Founder Educational organization “ What excites me the most is pushing a higher product quality bar via my own PRs and having the tools to explore and debate scope and feasibility (so I can push for more complete UX flows, accessibility, component improvements). Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ I'm having way more fun with the work. I can spontaneously follow my curiosity into new domains like frontend code and shaders, instead of getting blocked by what I haven’t had time to learn yet. Jason Marder Independent designer “ The tools were more creative than anticipated. With Claude Code and Cursor, I've been surprised by how they can riff off ideas I have and show me things I didn't know were possible with HTML/CSS/JavaScript. Founder Educational organization “ What excites me the most is pushing a higher product quality bar via my own PRs and having the tools to explore and debate scope and feasibility (so I can push for more complete UX flows, accessibility, component improvements). Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ I'm having way more fun with the work. I can spontaneously follow my curiosity into new domains like frontend code and shaders, instead of getting blocked by what I haven’t had time to learn yet. Jason Marder Independent designer “ The tools were more creative than anticipated. With Claude Code and Cursor, I've been surprised by how they can riff off ideas I have and show me things I didn't know were possible with HTML/CSS/JavaScript. Founder Educational organization “ What excites me the most is pushing a higher product quality bar via my own PRs and having the tools to explore and debate scope and feasibility (so I can push for more complete UX flows, accessibility, component improvements). Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ I'm having way more fun with the work. I can spontaneously follow my curiosity into new domains like frontend code and shaders, instead of getting blocked by what I haven’t had time to learn yet. Jason Marder Independent designer “ The tools were more creative than anticipated. With Claude Code and Cursor, I've been surprised by how they can riff off ideas I have and show me things I didn't know were possible with HTML/CSS/JavaScript. Founder Educational organization “ Unexpectedly useful is just being able to ask questions about the codebase—how things work, what's the structure, where the data comes from, what component is being used, etc. Things that I used to need to ask an engineer. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ As a designer with more than twelve years of experience … The scope of what I can do, both inside my company and outside of it, feels bigger than before. I genuinely think this is one of the most exciting times in design history to be a designer. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ Honestly when it works it makes work fun. I've been able to lean into more exec and product-level things with Claude. Executive Growth-stage company “ Unexpectedly useful is just being able to ask questions about the codebase—how things work, what's the structure, where the data comes from, what component is being used, etc. Things that I used to need to ask an engineer. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ As a designer with more than twelve years of experience … The scope of what I can do, both inside my company and outside of it, feels bigger than before. I genuinely think this is one of the most exciting times in design history to be a designer. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ Honestly when it works it makes work fun. I've been able to lean into more exec and product-level things with Claude. Executive Growth-stage company “ Unexpectedly useful is just being able to ask questions about the codebase—how things work, what's the structure, where the data comes from, what component is being used, etc. Things that I used to need to ask an engineer. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ As a designer with more than twelve years of experience … The scope of what I can do, both inside my company and outside of it, feels bigger than before. I genuinely think this is one of the most exciting times in design history to be a designer. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ Honestly when it works it makes work fun. I've been able to lean into more exec and product-level things with Claude. Executive Growth-stage company “ Unexpectedly useful is just being able to ask questions about the codebase—how things work, what's the structure, where the data comes from, what component is being used, etc. Things that I used to need to ask an engineer. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ As a designer with more than twelve years of experience … The scope of what I can do, both inside my company and outside of it, feels bigger than before. I genuinely think this is one of the most exciting times in design history to be a designer. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ Honestly when it works it makes work fun. I've been able to lean into more exec and product-level things with Claude. Executive Growth-stage company But these findings don’t tell the whole story. Respondents also describe new stressors—like the pressure of speed, the need to “always be prompting,” and the fear that the human-centered skills that have always made design “design” will be less valued than technical skills. There are also increasing feelings of isolation. Designers are working solo more often since 2025, with 4x more respondents saying that collaboration has decreased (20% vs. 5% in 2025). We explore this more in Teams . But these findings don’t tell the whole story. Respondents also describe new stressors—like the pressure of speed, the need to “always be prompting,” and the fear that the human-centered skills that have always made design “design” will be less valued than technical skills. There are also increasing feelings of isolation. Designers are working solo more often since 2025, with 4x more respondents saying that collaboration has decreased (20% vs. 5% in 2025). We explore this more in Teams . But these findings don’t tell the whole story. Respondents also describe new stressors—like the pressure of speed, the need to “always be prompting,” and the fear that the human-centered skills that have always made design “design” will be less valued than technical skills. There are also increasing feelings of isolation. Designers are working solo more often since 2025, with 4x more respondents saying that collaboration has decreased (20% vs. 5% in 2025). We explore this more in Teams . But these findings don’t tell the whole story. Respondents also describe new stressors—like the pressure of speed, the need to “always be prompting,” and the fear that the human-centered skills that have always made design “design” will be less valued than technical skills. There are also increasing feelings of isolation. Designers are working solo more often since 2025, with 4x more respondents saying that collaboration has decreased (20% vs. 5% in 2025). We explore this more in Teams . “ AI is great, but the expectation of immense speed or 100x productivity has annihilated the joy and pride of the job. Individual contributor Early-stage startup “ In the past, there was a clear ROI to learning a new tool. Now it feels like a grind because every week there seems to be a new major update. I put in that investment and then a couple months later the tools change. The dividends don’t pay out as much. Alexander Cheung Senior Product Designer, Pinterest “ There’s loneliness replacing the collaborative energy. Waiting for AI to process replaces flow state. We can do cool things now, but with everyone building independently in a terminal, it’s devoid of the interaction that we often need to feel fulfilled. David Stinnette Director of Product Design, Samsara “ AI is great, but the expectation of immense speed or 100x productivity has annihilated the joy and pride of the job. Individual contributor Early-stage startup “ In the past, there was a clear ROI to learning a new tool. Now it feels like a grind because every week there seems to be a new major update. I put in that investment and then a couple months later the tools change. The dividends don’t pay out as much. Alexander Cheung Senior Product Designer, Pinterest “ There’s loneliness replacing the collaborative energy. Waiting for AI to process replaces flow state. We can do cool things now, but with everyone building independently in a terminal, it’s devoid of the interaction that we often need to feel fulfilled. David Stinnette Director of Product Design, Samsara “ AI is great, but the expectation of immense speed or 100x productivity has annihilated the joy and pride of the job. Individual contributor Early-stage startup “ In the past, there was a clear ROI to learning a new tool. Now it feels like a grind because every week there seems to be a new major update. I put in that investment and then a couple months later the tools change. The dividends don’t pay out as much. Alexander Cheung Senior Product Designer, Pinterest “ There’s loneliness replacing the collaborative energy. Waiting for AI to process replaces flow state. We can do cool things now, but with everyone building independently in a terminal, it’s devoid of the interaction that we often need to feel fulfilled. David Stinnette Director of Product Design, Samsara “ AI is great, but the expectation of immense speed or 100x productivity has annihilated the joy and pride of the job. Individual contributor Early-stage startup “ In the past, there was a clear ROI to learning a new tool. Now it feels like a grind because every week there seems to be a new major update. I put in that investment and then a couple months later the tools change. The dividends don’t pay out as much. Alexander Cheung Senior Product Designer, Pinterest “ There’s loneliness replacing the collaborative energy. Waiting for AI to process replaces flow state. We can do cool things now, but with everyone building independently in a terminal, it’s devoid of the interaction that we often need to feel fulfilled. David Stinnette Director of Product Design, Samsara “ The question is almost never ‘Should we use AI here?’ but ‘Can you try to use AI more? Where else can we use it?’ Almost as if we need to try to infuse it as much as possible in order to impress. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ We all worry about craft atrophy and how successful younger associates … will be given that AI has been more core to their journey than those of us who did it all by hand; therefore, will they have enough wisdom in decisions vs. leaning on AI to outsource the thinking. Executive Publicly traded company “ It seems like the hard skills of AI tooling are valued more than the soft skills that paved the way for user experience in the first place … hiring managers only value shipped work. Individual contributor Publicly traded company “ The question is almost never ‘Should we use AI here?’ but ‘Can you try to use AI more? Where else can we use it?’ Almost as if we need to try to infuse it as much as possible in order to impress. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ We all worry about craft atrophy and how successful younger associates … will be given that AI has been more core to their journey than those of us who did it all by hand; therefore, will they have enough wisdom in decisions vs. leaning on AI to outsource the thinking. Executive Publicly traded company “ It seems like the hard skills of AI tooling are valued more than the soft skills that paved the way for user experience in the first place … hiring managers only value shipped work. Individual contributor Publicly traded company “ The question is almost never ‘Should we use AI here?’ but ‘Can you try to use AI more? Where else can we use it?’ Almost as if we need to try to infuse it as much as possible in order to impress. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ We all worry about craft atrophy and how successful younger associates … will be given that AI has been more core to their journey than those of us who did it all by hand; therefore, will they have enough wisdom in decisions vs. leaning on AI to outsource the thinking. Executive Publicly traded company “ It seems like the hard skills of AI tooling are valued more than the soft skills that paved the way for user experience in the first place … hiring managers only value shipped work. Individual contributor Publicly traded company “ The question is almost never ‘Should we use AI here?’ but ‘Can you try to use AI more? Where else can we use it?’ Almost as if we need to try to infuse it as much as possible in order to impress. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ We all worry about craft atrophy and how successful younger associates … will be given that AI has been more core to their journey than those of us who did it all by hand; therefore, will they have enough wisdom in decisions vs. leaning on AI to outsource the thinking. Executive Publicly traded company “ It seems like the hard skills of AI tooling are valued more than the soft skills that paved the way for user experience in the first place … hiring managers only value shipped work. Individual contributor Publicly traded company Where do we go from here? Where do we go from here? Where do we go from here? Where do we go from here? Where do we go from here? Where do we go from here? Where do we go from here? Where do we go from here? As models improve, designers will find a more and more capable partner in AI. We’ll be tracking: What does it mean to design for agents—and to design for humans working alongside them? This was a topic that surfaced surprisingly little in our conversations and survey responses. The old interaction patterns won’t apply when we make software for agents; they want access to data and clarity. As Alexander Cheung, Senior Product Designer at Pinterest, puts it, “If AI is designing for AI, it doesn’t even need to be delightful. It just needs to work.” But we can also think of agents as a new archetype of coworker. Even if we’re no longer moving pixels ourselves, we still want to design alongside AI, so we need better ways to communicate with it. How will designers think about accountability? Agents aren’t accountable for mistakes. When a self-driving car gets into an accident, a human needs to answer for it. The same goes for agent-produced design work. Humans need to be able to control AI tools, and perhaps it’s this element of accountability that will keep humans in the process as AI takes on more production work. Does all this velocity produce better design, or just more of it? Faster shipping is one of the most visible changes from 2025 to 2026. Whether the floor of quality is rising is still debated. Will humans still have an edge in taste? AI may close the gap on craft and usability faster than on taste, judgment, and cultural foresight. Humans have a unique advantage in our ability to tell compelling stories that resonate with our fellow humans and to curate what AI should and should not do. But how long will that gap stay meaningful, and will companies keep paying a premium for it? What do designers need to learn to position themselves for multiple possible futures? As models improve, designers will find a more and more capable partner in AI. We’ll be tracking: What does it mean to design for agents—and to design for humans working alongside them? This was a topic that surfaced surprisingly little in our conversations and survey responses. The old interaction patterns won’t apply when we make software for agents; they want access to data and clarity. As Alexander Cheung, Senior Product Designer at Pinterest, puts it, “If AI is designing for AI, it doesn’t even need to be delightful. It just needs to work.” But we can also think of agents as a new archetype of coworker. Even if we’re no longer moving pixels ourselves, we still want to design alongside AI, so we need better ways to communicate with it. How will designers think about accountability? Agents aren’t accountable for mistakes. When a self-driving car gets into an accident, a human needs to answer for it. The same goes for agent-produced design work. Humans need to be able to control AI tools, and perhaps it’s this element of accountability that will keep humans in the process as AI takes on more production work. Does all this velocity produce better design, or just more of it? Faster shipping is one of the most visible changes from 2025 to 2026. Whether the floor of quality is rising is still debated. Will humans still have an edge in taste? AI may close the gap on craft and usability faster than on taste, judgment, and cultural foresight. Humans have a unique advantage in our ability to tell compelling stories that resonate with our fellow humans and to curate what AI should and should not do. But how long will that gap stay meaningful, and will companies keep paying a premium for it? What do designers need to learn to position themselves for multiple possible futures? As models improve, designers will find a more and more capable partner in AI. We’ll be tracking: What does it mean to design for agents—and to design for humans working alongside them? This was a topic that surfaced surprisingly little in our conversations and survey responses. The old interaction patterns won’t apply when we make software for agents; they want access to data and clarity. As Alexander Cheung, Senior Product Designer at Pinterest, puts it, “If AI is designing for AI, it doesn’t even need to be delightful. It just needs to work.” But we can also think of agents as a new archetype of coworker. Even if we’re no longer moving pixels ourselves, we still want to design alongside AI, so we need better ways to communicate with it. How will designers think about accountability? Agents aren’t accountable for mistakes. When a self-driving car gets into an accident, a human needs to answer for it. The same goes for agent-produced design work. Humans need to be able to control AI tools, and perhaps it’s this element of accountability that will keep humans in the process as AI takes on more production work. Does all this velocity produce better design, or just more of it? Faster shipping is one of the most visible changes from 2025 to 2026. Whether the floor of quality is rising is still debated. Will humans still have an edge in taste? AI may close the gap on craft and usability faster than on taste, judgment, and cultural foresight. Humans have a unique advantage in our ability to tell compelling stories that resonate with our fellow humans and to curate what AI should and should not do. But how long will that gap stay meaningful, and will companies keep paying a premium for it? What do designers need to learn to position themselves for multiple possible futures? As models improve, designers will find a more and more capable partner in AI. We’ll be tracking: What does it mean to design for agents—and to design for humans working alongside them? This was a topic that surfaced surprisingly little in our conversations and survey responses. The old interaction patterns won’t apply when we make software for agents; they want access to data and clarity. As Alexander Cheung, Senior Product Designer at Pinterest, puts it, “If AI is designing for AI, it doesn’t even need to be delightful. It just needs to work.” But we can also think of agents as a new archetype of coworker. Even if we’re no longer moving pixels ourselves, we still want to design alongside AI, so we need better ways to communicate with it. How will designers think about accountability? Agents aren’t accountable for mistakes. When a self-driving car gets into an accident, a human needs to answer for it. The same goes for agent-produced design work. Humans need to be able to control AI tools, and perhaps it’s this element of accountability that will keep humans in the process as AI takes on more production work. Does all this velocity produce better design, or just more of it? Faster shipping is one of the most visible changes from 2025 to 2026. Whether the floor of quality is rising is still debated. Will humans still have an edge in taste? AI may close the gap on craft and usability faster than on taste, judgment, and cultural foresight. Humans have a unique advantage in our ability to tell compelling stories that resonate with our fellow humans and to curate what AI should and should not do. But how long will that gap stay meaningful, and will companies keep paying a premium for it? What do designers need to learn to position themselves for multiple possible futures? Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways 01 Coding is part of more designers’ workflows. Half the designers we surveyed across brand and product design, including founders and executives, have shipped AI-generated code to production. Coding is a new surface to collaborate with engineers. 02 Prototypes are now a key design output. Continuing a trend we saw in 2025, design teams are prototyping more, and in some cases skipping static mockups. 03 Designers seem to value the creative range that AI gives them. They’re also benefiting from more speed, but this creates mixed feelings. Some say it unlocks higher quality work, while others believe they’re cutting corners on the design process. 04 Designers aren’t handing the keys over to AI completely Over 80% of those we surveyed still rely on their own judgment around craft, quality, creative direction, and more. 05 People are feeling a mixture of anxiety and joy. There are serious worries about craft atrophy, loneliness, and the hopelessness of trying to keep up with new technology. At the same time, most designers we surveyed reported more overall job satisfaction as a result of AI. 01 Coding is part of more designers’ workflows. Half the designers we surveyed across brand and product design, including founders and executives, have shipped AI-generated code to production. Coding is a new surface to collaborate with engineers. 02 Prototypes are now a key design output. Continuing a trend we saw in 2025, design teams are prototyping more, and in some cases skipping static mockups. 03 Designers seem to value the creative range that AI gives them. They’re also benefiting from more speed, but this creates mixed feelings. Some say it unlocks higher quality work, while others believe they’re cutting corners on the design process. 04 Designers aren’t handing the keys over to AI completely Over 80% of those we surveyed still rely on their own judgment around craft, quality, creative direction, and more. 05 People are feeling a mixture of anxiety and joy. There are serious worries about craft atrophy, loneliness, and the hopelessness of trying to keep up with new technology. At the same time, most designers we surveyed reported more overall job satisfaction as a result of AI. 01 Coding is part of more designers’ workflows. Half the designers we surveyed across brand and product design, including founders and executives, have shipped AI-generated code to production. Coding is a new surface to collaborate with engineers. 02 Prototypes are now a key design output. Continuing a trend we saw in 2025, design teams are prototyping more, and in some cases skipping static mockups. 03 Designers seem to value the creative range that AI gives them. They’re also benefiting from more speed, but this creates mixed feelings. Some say it unlocks higher quality work, while others believe they’re cutting corners on the design process. 04 Designers aren’t handing the keys over to AI completely Over 80% of those we surveyed still rely on their own judgment around craft, quality, creative direction, and more. 05 People are feeling a mixture of anxiety and joy. There are serious worries about craft atrophy, loneliness, and the hopelessness of trying to keep up with new technology. At the same time, most designers we surveyed reported more overall job satisfaction as a result of AI. 01 Coding is part of more designers’ workflows. Half the designers we surveyed across brand and product design, including founders and executives, have shipped AI-generated code to production. Coding is a new surface to collaborate with engineers. 02 Prototypes are now a key design output. Continuing a trend we saw in 2025, design teams are prototyping more, and in some cases skipping static mockups. 03 Designers seem to value the creative range that AI gives them. They’re also benefiting from more speed, but this creates mixed feelings. Some say it unlocks higher quality work, while others believe they’re cutting corners on the design process. 04 Designers aren’t handing the keys over to AI completely Over 80% of those we surveyed still rely on their own judgment around craft, quality, creative direction, and more. 05 People are feeling a mixture of anxiety and joy. There are serious worries about craft atrophy, loneliness, and the hopelessness of trying to keep up with new technology. At the same time, most designers we surveyed reported more overall job satisfaction as a result of AI. Further reading FURTHER READING Relevant posts & resources “Output Isn’t Design” — Karri Saarinen linear.app “Beyond Prototyping” — Nate Parrott aidesignfieldguide.com “The design process is dead. Here’s what’s replacing it.” — Jenny Wen and Lenny Rachitsky lennysnewsletter.com “The 2026 AI Design Field Report (tools, process, and what's working)” — Steven Haney and Michael Riddering youtube.com “Your product has a new user. It’s not human.” — Elena Verna elenaverna.com “Design in Tech Report” — John Maeda designintech.report Further reading FURTHER READING Relevant posts & resources “Output Isn’t Design” — Karri Saarinen linear.app “Beyond Prototyping” — Nate Parrott aidesignfieldguide.com “The design process is dead. Here’s what’s replacing it.” — Jenny Wen and Lenny Rachitsky lennysnewsletter.com “The 2026 AI Design Field Report (tools, process, and what's working)” — Steven Haney and Michael Riddering youtube.com “Your product has a new user. It’s not human.” — Elena Verna elenaverna.com “Design in Tech Report” — John Maeda designintech.report Further reading FURTHER READING “Output Isn’t Design” — Karri Saarinen linear.app “Beyond Prototyping” — Nate Parrott aidesignfieldguide.com “The design process is dead. Here’s what’s replacing it.” — Jenny Wen and Lenny Rachitsky lennysnewsletter.com “The 2026 AI Design Field Report (tools, process, and what's working)” — Steven Haney and Michael Riddering youtube.com “Your product has a new user. It’s not human.” — Elena Verna elenaverna.com “Design in Tech Report” — John Maeda designintech.report Further reading FURTHER READING Relevant posts & resources “Output Isn’t Design” — Karri Saarinen linear.app “Beyond Prototyping” — Nate Parrott aidesignfieldguide.com “The design process is dead. Here’s what’s replacing it.” — Jenny Wen and Lenny Rachitsky lennysnewsletter.com “The 2026 AI Design Field Report (tools, process, and what's working)” — Steven Haney and Michael Riddering youtube.com “Your product has a new user. It’s not human.” — Elena Verna elenaverna.com “Design in Tech Report” — John Maeda designintech.report Next Chapter 03 . Teams 03 . Teams ‹ › Get new case studies & report markdown Download the markdown version of the report, ready to drop into any tool. Get notified as new case studies go live. Submit By subscribing, you agree to receive communications from Designer Fund and Foundation Capital in accordance with their privacy policies. Methodology This report draws from 0 Survey responses 0 + Interviews 0 + Public sources Report Partners Anthropic Framer Stripe Sierra Notion Shopify Linear Report Read the Report About Case Studies ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Made in Framer by ++hellohello Get new case studies & report markdown Download the markdown version of the report, ready to drop into any tool. Get notified as new case studies go live. Submit By subscribing, you agree to receive communications from Designer Fund and Foundation Capital in accordance with their privacy policies. Methodology This report draws from 0 Survey responses 0 + Interviews 0 + Public sources Report Partners Anthropic Framer Stripe Sierra Notion Shopify Linear Report Read the Report About Case Studies ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Made in Framer by ++hellohello Get new case studies & report markdown Download the markdown version of the report, ready to drop into any tool. Get notified as new case studies go live. Submit By subscribing, you agree to receive communications from Designer Fund and Foundation Capital in accordance with their privacy policies. Methodology This report draws from 0 Survey responses 0 + Interviews 0 + Public sources Report Partners Anthropic Framer Stripe Sierra Notion Shopify Linear Report Read the Report About Case Studies ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Made in Framer by ++hellohello Get new case studies & report markdown Download the markdown version of the report, ready to drop into any tool. Get notified as new case studies go live. Submit By subscribing, you agree to receive communications from Designer Fund and Foundation Capital in accordance with their privacy policies. Methodology This report draws from 0 Survey responses 0 + Interviews 0 + Public sources Report Partners Anthropic Framer Stripe Sierra Notion Shopify Linear Report Read the Report About Case Studies ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Made in Framer by ++hellohello 