Teams - AI in Design Report 2026 About About Case Studies Case Studies Read the Report Read the Report Tools 01 Craft 02 Teams 03 ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Sierra 01 Linear 02 Shopify 03 Coming soon Stripe 04 Coming soon Anthropic 05 Coming soon Notion 06 Coming soon Framer 07 Coming soon ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Menu Menu ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Report Chapters Case Studies About Back Tools 01 Craft 02 Teams 03 Back Sierra 01 Linear 02 Shopify 03 Coming soon Stripe 04 Coming soon Anthropic 05 Coming soon Notion 06 Coming soon Framer 07 Coming soon ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. Teams Redesigning the design team Reading time: 38 min 03 . Teams Redesigning the design team Reading time: 38 min As designers do more—and more people do design—company norms fall behind 0 % of designers receive moderate or strong support for AI adoption 0 % of leaders have changed formal org processes 0 % of leaders expect to keep or grow design headcount As designers do more—and more people do design—company norms fall behind 0 % of designers receive moderate or strong support for AI adoption 0 % of leaders have changed formal org processes 0 % of leaders expect to keep or grow design headcount As designers do more—and more people do design—company norms fall behind 0 % of designers receive moderate or strong support for AI adoption 0 % of leaders have changed formal org processes 0 % of leaders expect to keep or grow design headcount As designers do more—and more people do design—company norms fall behind 0 % of designers receive moderate or strong support for AI adoption 0 % of leaders have changed formal org processes 0 % of leaders expect to keep or grow design headcount Companies are putting more budget, programs, and encouragement behind AI adoption than they were a year ago, but designers are still mostly teaching themselves and learning from one another. Leaders can enable this grassroots learning by creating space for tinkering and experimentation. Some designers are now doing more PM and engineering work, and vice versa. They’re also becoming architects of AI workflows and builders of custom tools. But despite rising expectations for both volume and quality of work, few companies have updated their official policies around performance reviews, team structure, and hiring practices. Most design leaders we surveyed expect to maintain or grow their design headcount, and some are shifting resources to AI-native hybrid design roles. Hiring managers are looking for AI fluency, but they still hold a high bar for craft, vision, strategic thinking, and storytelling. See Methodology AI adoption AI adoption 1. Companies are investing more in AI adoption, and designers still learn the most from one another AI adoption AI adoption 1. Companies are investing more in AI adoption, and designers still learn the most from one another Companies have stepped up their support for designers adopting AI. 87% of all respondents report at least moderate organizational support for AI adoption, and 53% say that support is strong—via budget, active encouragement, and formal programs. Companies have stepped up their support for designers adopting AI. Support for AI adoption by company type Strong support - dedicated budget, active encouragement, and formal programs Moderate support - some tools provided, limited formal structure Minimal or no support Early-stage 64 % 23 % 13 % Growth-stage 59 % 34 % 7 % Publicly traded 53 % 35 % 12 % Consultancy or design agency 34 % 47 % 19 % Other 31 % 41 % 28 % Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Support for AI adoption by company type Strong support - dedicated budget, active encouragement, and formal programs Moderate support - some tools provided, limited formal structure Minimal or no support Early-stage 64 % 23 % 13 % Growth-stage 59 % 34 % 7 % Publicly traded 53 % 35 % 12 % Consultancy or design agency 34 % 47 % 19 % Other 31 % 41 % 28 % Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Support for AI adoption by company type Strong support - dedicated budget, active encouragement, and formal programs Moderate support - some tools provided, limited formal structure Minimal or no support Early-stage 64 % 23 % 13 % Growth-stage 59 % 34 % 7 % Publicly traded 53 % 35 % 12 % Consultancy or design agency 34 % 47 % 19 % Other 31 % 41 % 28 % Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Support for AI adoption by company type Strong support - dedicated budget, active encouragement, and formal programs Moderate support - some tools provided, limited formal structure Minimal or no support Early-stage 64 % 23 % 13 % Growth-stage 59 % 34 % 7 % Publicly traded 53 % 35 % 12 % Consultancy or design agency 34 % 47 % 19 % Other 31 % 41 % 28 % Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 In 2025, early-stage startups were twice as likely to have adopted AI tools compared to growth-stage or publicly traded companies. Today, 60% of respondents at both early- and growth-stage companies report receiving strong organizational support, with publicly traded companies close behind at 56%. AI tools are being adopted across the spectrum. Companies with strong organizational support don't just provide tools and budget. Among designers at high-support organizations, 55% report having a broader culture of tinkering where everyone is expected to build and experiment, compared to 28% at companies with moderate or minimal support. Tinkering appears to be the mechanism through which organizational investment actually reaches designers. Designers at companies with strong AI adoption support are also much more likely to say AI is part of their core workflow, to feel confident in their toolstack, and to ship code. And as we explore in Craft , they also report higher job satisfaction and feelings of creative capability. In 2025, early-stage startups were twice as likely to have adopted AI tools compared to growth-stage or publicly traded companies. So what does organizational support look like? 46% of designers say their companies have internal AI champions or communities of practice. That’s followed by structured tinkering time (25%), formal training programs (20%), and subscriptions to learning platforms (16%). How organizations support AI skill building Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How organizations support AI skill building Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How organizations support AI skill building Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How organizations support AI skill building Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 In Practice Tactics that enable tinkering Here are a few ways teams can support experimentation across their organizations: Appoint “AI champions” to help teammates adopt new tools Formalize a central role focused on tooling, access, and education Create spaces to share prompts and workflows, such as dedicated Slack channels Celebrate grassroots inventions by highlighting employee-built tools in newsletters, team meetings, and company-wide forums Proactively protect time for experimentation and learning Run AI hackathons tied to company goals or open exploration In Practice Tactics that enable tinkering Here are a few ways teams can support experimentation across their organizations: Appoint “AI champions” to help teammates adopt new tools Formalize a central role focused on tooling, access, and education Create spaces to share prompts and workflows, such as dedicated Slack channels Celebrate grassroots inventions by highlighting employee-built tools in newsletters, team meetings, and company-wide forums Proactively protect time for experimentation and learning Run AI hackathons tied to company goals or open exploration Peer learning has doubled, while reliance on leadership recommendations dropped in half Peer learning has doubled, while reliance on leadership recommendations dropped in half Peer learning has doubled, while reliance on leadership recommendations dropped in half Peer learning has doubled, while reliance on leadership recommendations dropped in half Similar to our 2025 findings, learning happens bottom-up. Other than self-directed learning—the #1 way designers are staying current—they’re teaching one another. Compared to last year, the number of designers relying on peer learning more than doubled, from 24% to 70% of respondents. Those using social media, newsletter, and online communities jumped from 41% to 76%. Similar to our 2025 findings, learning happens bottom-up. How designers stay current on new AI tools and capabilities Self-directed learning and experimentation Social media, newsletters, or online communities Learning from peers or colleagues Recommendations from leadership External courses or certifications Internal training programs or workshops Vendor-led demos or tutorials Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How designers stay current on new AI tools and capabilities Self-directed learning and experimentation Social media, newsletters, or online communities Learning from peers or colleagues Recommendations from leadership External courses or certifications Internal training programs or workshops Vendor-led demos or tutorials Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How designers stay current on new AI tools and capabilities Self-directed learning and experimentation Social media, newsletters, or online communities Learning from peers or colleagues Recommendations from leadership External courses or certifications Internal training programs or workshops Vendor-led demos or tutorials Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How designers stay current on new AI tools and capabilities Self-directed learning and experimentation Social media, newsletters, or online communities Learning from peers or colleagues Recommendations from leadership External courses or certifications Internal training programs or workshops Vendor-led demos or tutorials Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Our respondents indicated that they learn from leadership recommendations at half the rate they did in 2025, dropping from 32% to 16%. Leaders who want to enable AI adoption can support peer learning and bubble up the best practices. They’re also getting back into individual contributor work to experience tools firsthand. “Leaders are looking to their teams for recommendations,” says Heather Phillips, an independent design leader and former design director at Slack. “At Slack, we had a channel where designers posted resources and inspiration, which surfaced ideas to management. For example, the Design Ops team rallied for budget and organized cohorts of designers to go through Elizabeth Lin’s Cursor training.” Our respondents indicated that they learn from leadership recommendations at half the rate they did in 2025, dropping from 32% to 16%. “ The pace of AI innovation means we are all 'early career.' Leaders don't necessarily have all the answers right now. Expertise is more diffuse than ever before and there’s a lot to learn from each other. If leaders want to understand what's actually possible and how their teams need to adapt, they have to get close to the makers and hands-on with the tools themselves. Katie Dill Head of Design, Stripe “ There isn’t a uniform expectation for how to use AI, and I think our leadership is comfortable with everyone having their own workflows, as long as it helps unblock and move work forward. Depending on our project type, we use it, or don’t use it, at our discretion. Isha Kumar Product Designer, Linear “ The pace of AI innovation means we are all 'early career.' Leaders don't necessarily have all the answers right now. Isha Kumar Product Designer, Linear There is still no standard playbook for supporting AI adoption within companies. Here are a few anecdotes from real design teams. Maze After six months of open experimentation, designers at Maze have formed their own rituals, like dedicated design coding time and show-and-tell sessions. Netali Jakubovitz, Maze’s VP of Product, says, “We started with a rigid AI adoption policy but quickly decided to switch to a culture of organic experimentation, going ‘bonanza,’ just giving people budget, permission, and time to explore freely. As a leader, I set up my own dev environment and created my own PRs, sitting with my designers to understand their day-to-day. It’s a brand new world, and as leaders we have to get to know it.” Watershed Watershed provides company-level AI enablement resources and office hours, and designers are encouraged to find an engineering buddy—a best friend on the team who can get the designer unstuck when their dev environment breaks or review a PR they want to ship. “The number one thing our designers are asking for is dedicated time to learn,” says Hannah Hudson, Head of Design at Watershed. “They have all their environments set up—now they need time to really deeply build stuff. It can be intimidating to work with new tools, so they want office hours, hackathon time, whatever they need to make it more comfortable to jump in." DoorDash The DoorDash design team set a clear expectation for every designer to ship PRs to production. To make the process less intimidating, they ran a two-week setup period, followed by a two-day hackathon where the team shipped 200 PRs. Designers share their work and learnings in a dedicated Slack channel, supported by internal resources and trainings on setting up coding environments. Shali Nguyen, Head of Consumer Experience Design at DoorDash, says, “Our VP of Design created a company BHAG—a big, hairy, audacious goal—for all designers to ship a high number of PRs to production each month. “It’s intentionally a big number, which has inspired a ton of conversations about what gets in the way, working with our engineering counterparts to improve the product development process and identifying how we help the teams with more training. We want to create those conversations to change how the company works.” Stripe Stripe creates the conditions for designers to experiment through broad tool access, brown bag sessions, external speaker talks, “AI vacations,” says Katie Dill, Stripe’s Head of Design. “We try to make as many tools as possible available to teams, and the teams take it from there. Folks have built incredible things internally and externally this way. No top down mandate, just people and their ideas. once a quarter where they can take time away from their day jobs to play with new tools and build whatever they’re interested in. We celebrate this great work at the weekly company meeting with Stripe’s founders, inspiring others to try. “We are comfortable with progress over perfection. When rolling out a new internal AI tool, we admit it will evolve and avoid mandating it. Our goal is simply to get better over time by learning from our teams’ experiences.” There is still no standard playbook for supporting AI adoption within companies. How tools are accessed and funded How tools are accessed and funded How tools are accessed and funded How tools are accessed and funded 53% of our respondents said they use company-funded external tools. Still, 42% report paying out of pocket for approved tools, and 21% use unsanctioned tools. Last year, we noted that AI experimentation was bottlenecked by legal, security, and compliance constraints—now, many designers are routing around them or just building their own. 53% of our respondents said they use company-funded external tools. How designers’ AI tools are paid for or provided Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How designers’ AI tools are paid for or provided Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How designers’ AI tools are paid for or provided Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How designers’ AI tools are paid for or provided Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 In Practice Tool check-in A fifth of designers we surveyed are using AI tools their company hasn't approved, and two out of five are paying for software themselves. If you’re a design leader, consider asking or surveying your team about the tools they're using or wish they could use. This can help you make decisions on what to officially support, who to reimburse, and areas in which procurement needs to move faster. stack is a shortlist of tools people have already tested and found worth keeping. In Practice Tool check-in A fifth of designers we surveyed are using AI tools their company hasn't approved, and two out of five are paying for software themselves. The companies unblocking adoption seem to be loosening control, not tightening it. Katie Dill, Head of Design at Stripe, notes three key tool adoption barriers that used to slow her team down: No room for risk. People felt stretched thin and didn't feel safe experimenting on top of their regular workload. Designers didn't know which tools were sanctioned or secure to use. Even when tools were permitted, there was no obvious way to pay for them. Stripe now offers "a cornucopia of options, no single prescribed tool," celebrates experimentation, and offers a library of internal agents anyone can leverage and add to. At Samsara, David Stinnette gives every designer a $50/month tool stipend. At Ramp, everyone across the organization gets access to AI coding tools by default on day one. Designers can make PRs using a tool called Inspect, and Glass , their custom internal AI workspace, makes it easy for anyone to build their own apps from scratch. “ The days of mandating a single design tool across an organization are numbered. In the AI-native workplace, the expectation will be Bring Your Own Tools (BYOT). This doesn’t mean chaos—it means respecting how people work best and enabling them to plug into shared systems. David Hoang VP of Design, AI, Atlassian “ “ The days of mandating a single design tool across an organization are numbered. David Hoang VP of Design, AI, Atlassian “ The days of mandating a single design tool across an organization are numbered. David Hoang VP of Design, AI, Atlassian “ As more designers experiment with AI tools and build custom workflows, design operations as a function may become increasingly important as a way to help design teams converge around a stack, surface experiments and lessons, and stay aligned as the pace and volume of work increases. Michelle Morrison, Senior Staff UX Program Manager at Google, points out that as teams gain the ability to generate many more design possibilities, this also creates more decisions that need to be made. She writes , “As execution becomes easier, organizations require rigor for understanding what work is happening across teams and why. Design Ops can help create visibility into experimentation, connect learning across projects, and support the pathways that turn exploration into direction." In the past, design leaders may have brought in Design Ops to help scale a team. Now, with AI changing what a small team can do, it may be needed as a foundational role much sooner. As more designers experiment with AI tools and build custom workflows, design operations as a function may become increasingly important as a way to help design teams converge around a stack, surface experiments and lessons, and stay aligned as the pace and volume of work increases. Role scope is expanding and ownership is getting harder to define Role changes Role changes 2. Role scope is expanding and ownership is getting harder to define The lines between design, product, and engineering are continuing to blur. Many respondents (65%) say they’re doing more work that traditionally falls into PM, engineer, or design engineer territory, like implementation, coding, prototyping, research, and validation. The lines between design, product, and engineering are continuing to blur. 0 % are doing more PM and engineering tasks related to coding, prototyping, and research 0 % say their PMs and engineers are doing more design work 0 % are doing more PM and engineering tasks related to coding, prototyping, and research 0 % say their PMs and engineers are doing more design work 0 % are doing more PM and engineering tasks related to coding, prototyping, and research 0 % say their PMs and engineers are doing more design work 0 % are doing more PM and engineering tasks related to coding, prototyping, and research 0 % say their PMs and engineers are doing more design work Designers are owning Linear tickets end-to-end, rather than handing them off. They’re also using agents to query company tools they didn’t previously have access to and piping real customer data into their prototypes to bring them closer to production. And on the flip side, 40% say their PMs and engineers are now doing more design work. Designers are owning Linear tickets end-to-end, rather than handing them off. “ Engineers and PMs are creating prototypes. And they're complex—full user flows with seven different screens. Alexander Cheung Senior Product Designer, Pinterest “ “ Engineers and PMs are creating prototypes. Alexander Cheung Senior Product Designer, Pinterest “ Engineers and PMs are creating prototypes. Alexander Cheung Senior Product Designer, Pinterest “ How AI has changed design teams’ collaboration with non-designers Designers are writing more code or working closer to implementation Designers are creating more high-fidelity prototypes Product managers are doing more design work themselves Designers are doing even more research and validation Engineers are much more involved in design decisions than before Collaboration has become messier; roles and ownership are less clear It hasn't changed significantly Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How AI has changed design teams’ collaboration with non-designers Designers are writing more code or working closer to implementation Designers are creating more high-fidelity prototypes Product managers are doing more design work themselves Designers are doing even more research and validation Engineers are much more involved in design decisions than before Collaboration has become messier; roles and ownership are less clear It hasn't changed significantly Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How AI has changed design teams’ collaboration with non-designers Designers are writing more code or working closer to implementation Designers are creating more high-fidelity prototypes Product managers are doing more design work themselves Designers are doing even more research and validation Engineers are much more involved in design decisions than before Collaboration has become messier; roles and ownership are less clear It hasn't changed significantly Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How AI has changed design teams’ collaboration with non-designers Designers are writing more code or working closer to implementation Designers are creating more high-fidelity prototypes Product managers are doing more design work themselves Designers are doing even more research and validation Engineers are much more involved in design decisions than before Collaboration has become messier; roles and ownership are less clear It hasn't changed significantly Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 “ With AI, our designers now have access to data at scale and can use it to build a case for what to create, stretching into what PMs often do. For example, they're using agents to review data on Watershed's open pipeline to understand customer segmentation and to query product usage data with Claude Code. When it comes to generating code, designers are either prototyping in a separate environment and sharing that idea with their eng partner, or making front-end changes directly in production. But ultimately they aren't replacing engineers, and they aren't yet responsible for ongoing maintenance of the code or going 'on call.' Hannah Hudson Head of Design, Watershed “ “ With AI, our designers now have access to data at scale and can use it to build a case for what to create, stretching into what PMs often do. But ultimately they aren't replacing engineers, and they aren't yet responsible for ongoing maintenance of the code or going 'on call.' Hannah Hudson Head of Design, Watershed “ With AI, our designers now have access to data at scale and can use it to build a case for what to create, stretching into what PMs often do. But ultimately they aren't replacing engineers, and they aren't yet responsible for ongoing maintenance of the code or going 'on call.' Hannah Hudson Head of Design, Watershed “ A third of respondents (34%) say collaboration has become messier, with roles and ownership less clearly defined than before. To complicate this, AI tools without collaboration features are creating version control challenges and silos where people work too independently. Taken all together, 20% of our respondents said that collaboration has decreased—4x more than 5% in 2025. At the same time, the conversations we’ve had paint a nuanced picture. Many designers describe working more closely with engineers than ever before—by pair programming, reviewing code, and consulting on what one another is building. They’re working on the same surface with a shared language. A third of respondents (34%) say collaboration has become messier, with roles and ownership less clearly defined than before. In practice Rituals for collaboration AI-powered design work tends to feel single-player, which makes it more important than ever to create space for collaboration. Here are three rituals to consider trying. Run crits more often, in smaller groups. Shorter, more frequent sessions mean that feedback happens while the work is still in progress. One team we spoke with went from weekly crits to 4x weekly crits across sub-groups. Cross-functional jam sessions beat standups. Misalignment can quickly compound as more of the team works independently. meetings for open working sessions where design, product, and eng agree on direction, or the inputs to AI, before splitting off on their own. Pair designers to walk each other through what tools they use, what they’ve built recently, and the workarounds they’ve invented. “ In some ways, collaboration's getting a lot easier because if you're trying to convince an engineer or designer or a product person of something, you can just build it in their language. Code has always been the clay for software. I find it much easier to hand a coded prototype to an engineer to say, ‘Look, this isn’t some abstract idea. I didn’t fudge over the details.’ You can’t bullshit in a prototype. And all of the Git mechanics that already exist are really good collaboration mechanics: ‘I love what you did. I'm just trying my own thing.’ These methods are getting even easier now. Joel Lewenstein Head of Product Design, Anthropic “ Everyone's trying to build their own thing in isolation. Figma brought us together collaboratively and was a change agent in the industry. Figma Make isolates us, as does Cursor, Builder, Lovable, and every other tool. I've seen multiple projects where the designer is tinkering away in Figma Make while the engineer is in Cursor and they show up to the same review meeting with completely misaligned work. Nothing is connected and the interoperability is just bad or nonexistent. We spent ~12 months connecting everything together at the platform level and it's still a pain to get data fluidly moving between multiple tools and teams. Gotta get back to collaboration and eliminate these siloes of AI tools. Executive Publicly traded company “ In some ways, collaboration's getting a lot easier because if you're trying to convince an engineer or designer or a product person of something, you can just build it in their language. Executive Publicly traded company This report includes quotes from our anonymous survey in March 2026. Respondents are identified only by their role level and the stage of the company they work for. This report includes quotes from our anonymous survey in March 2026. Designers as system architects—and other changes to the role Designers as system architects—and other changes to the role Designers as system architects—and other changes to the role Designers as system architects—and other changes to the role More designers are becoming orchestrators of AI systems, tools, and workflows—what Jessica Rosenberg, Head of Brand at AirOps, calls “Agent Captains.” They’re building the infrastructure that raises the quality bar for everyone by preloading design system components into coding tools so that any prototype starts at a shared quality baseline. They’re creating prompt libraries and AI skills that embed brand guidelines into workflows. As professional boundaries blur, design is positioned to play a connective role that translates between disciplines, holding the vision and maintaining the quality bar. “T-shaped designer”—deep in one specialty and broad across the rest—was the dominant model for years. Some are now describing a “block-shaped” designer instead, with strong capabilities across multiple disciplines at once. Over the last few years, we’ve observed that "UX or UI designer" has become less common, with many teams opting for "product designer" to reflect end-to-end ownership rather than a narrow function. Some companies are placing less emphasis on the distinctions between design, product, and engineering altogether, in favor of a shared focus on building and shipping. More designers are becoming orchestrators of AI systems, tools, and workflows—what Jessica Rosenberg, Head of Brand at AirOps, calls “Agent Captains.” “ We're starting to move more into the 'Agent Captain' model, where designers act as captains overseeing AI agents that handle production. We focus on the 'what-ifs' while AI does the repeat work. It's still early days, but the experiments we've done here are promising. Jessica Rosenberg Head of Brand, AirOps “ “ We're starting to move more into the 'Agent Captain' model, where designers act as captains overseeing AI agents that handle production. Jessica Rosenberg Head of Brand, AirOps “ We're starting to move more into the 'Agent Captain' model, where designers act as captains overseeing AI agents that handle production. Jessica Rosenberg Head of Brand, AirOps “ Garrett Fowler, design recruiter and founder of Offsite, sees a deeper shift in how design roles are starting to split. “Over the last two decades, we've developed blueprints for what great design looks like—in mobile apps, growth design, vertical SaaS, and more,” We need people who think in blueprints again. Maybe we call them 'systems architects' or 'design architects,' while others are 'design crafters.' There will also be room for the best craftspeople—craft needs to be as high as ever, and the ability to work ambiguously with your craft.” As tools give more non-designers the ability to create experiences—think Canva, Lovable, and Claude Design, with hundreds of millions of users—professional designers have a chance to go deeper and broader than we ever have before. Ultimately, designers need to stay accountable for the user experience, bringing empathy to solve problems, even when the surface area of who’s “doing design” Garrett Fowler, design recruiter and founder of Offsite, sees a deeper shift in how design roles are starting to split. We have the opportunity right now to be the glue that binds everybody. So we take all the ideas, no matter where they come from, and bring them to life as incredibly immersive prototypes. And we have the opportunity to bring product strategy closer to where the engineering happens. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ “ Design has never been so powerful. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ Design has never been so powerful. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ Expectations & structure Expectations & structure 3. Expectations are changing faster than company policy Expectations & structure Expectations & structure 3. Expectations are changing faster than company policy Many designers feel the bar rising. Overall, 73% report feeling expectations rising. 45% indicate faster turnaround times, and 37% point to higher expected output volume. How company expectations for design output have changed over the past year Faster turnaround times expected Functional prototypes or real code expected more often (vs. static mockups) Higher expected output volume or more design iterations Higher overall quality bar Expectations are unclear or inconsistent across the organization Expectations have stayed roughly the same Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How company expectations for design output have changed over the past year Faster turnaround times expected Functional prototypes or real code expected more often (vs. static mockups) Higher expected output volume or more design iterations Higher overall quality bar Expectations are unclear or inconsistent across the organization Expectations have stayed roughly the same Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 The ground is shifting but still broadly unsettled. While these designers feel new expectations, just 28% of leaders said they’ve implemented formal changes in their organizations. A combined 13% of leader respondents have already updated their official performance review metrics or hiring practices. (Interestingly, a little over a third say they haven’t changed their expectations.) The ground is shifting but still broadly unsettled. (Interestingly, a little over a third say they haven’t changed their expectations.) Companies’ formal changes to how designers are evaluated or compensated Changed the career ladder framework to reflect new expectations across different levels Updated the metrics in the performance review cycles Changed the hiring process Changed the incentives - comp levels and structure We haven't made any formal changes to reflect new expectations We haven't changed our expectations Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Companies’ formal changes to how designers are evaluated or compensated Changed the career ladder framework to reflect new expectations across different levels Updated the metrics in the performance review cycles Changed the hiring process Changed the incentives - comp levels and structure We haven't made any formal changes to reflect new expectations We haven't changed our expectations Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Companies’ formal changes to how designers are evaluated or compensated Changed the career ladder framework to reflect new expectations across different levels Updated the metrics in the performance review cycles Changed the hiring process Changed the incentives - comp levels and structure We haven't made any formal changes to reflect new expectations We haven't changed our expectations Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Companies’ formal changes to how designers are evaluated or compensated Changed the career ladder framework to reflect new expectations across different levels Updated the metrics in the performance review cycles Changed the hiring process Changed the incentives - comp levels and structure We haven't made any formal changes to reflect new expectations We haven't changed our expectations Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 “ All design roles have new AI Craft Skills added to the rubric. We expect everyone across Ops, Content, Product, and Design Engineering to have fluency in AI relative to their domain. Built into our mid-year and annual review cycles to measure where in the percentile each employee sits relative to peers in these new craft skills. Executive Publicly traded company “ My organization has updated performance review criteria to evaluate whether employees are actively using internal AI tools and platforms, creating an expectation of adoption even when those tools do not yet match the quality or capability of what is available in the broader industry. Manager Publicly traded company “ All design roles have new AI Craft Skills added to the rubric. Manager Publicly traded company “ Product Designers now have to be 'Product Builders,' ideate with customers, perform prompt researching and artifacts creation, and deliver 'production-ready-code,' and with less 'token consumption.' This is the expectation we are setting up for ourselves and training the team. Manager Agency “ The formal evaluation process stayed the same, and no compensation was given for AI. There was no formal training or dedicated time for this. It feels like we're in a race to see who can tell everyone about what they built with AI, and it's been stressful. Manager Growth-stage company “ Product Designers now have to be 'Product Builders,' ideate with customers, perform prompt researching and artifacts creation, and deliver 'production-ready-code,' and with less 'token consumption.' This is the expectation we are setting up for ourselves and training the team. Manager Growth-stage company Half of respondents, including executives, managers, and ICs, say their teams haven’t made significant structural changes. Only 7% say their teams have added new AI-focused roles, like “AI design lead” We believe we’ll see growth here in the coming years. 19% report that their company has reduced headcount while expecting the same or more output. Only 8% say that the ratio of designers to engineers or PMs has shifted. Half of respondents, including executives, managers, and ICs, say their teams haven’t made significant structural changes. How design team structure has changed in the past year Reduced headcount while maintaining or increasing output expectations We are actively discussing potential changes Roles have been significantly redefined but not eliminated Increased headcount Changed the ratio of designers to engineers or PMs on the team Changed the level of designer hired to the team Added new AI-focused roles (e.g., AI design producer, prompt engineer, AI design lead) Merged or eliminated roles previously handled by dedicated specialists No significant structural changes Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How design team structure has changed in the past year Reduced headcount while maintaining or increasing output expectations We are actively discussing potential changes Roles have been significantly redefined but not eliminated Increased headcount Changed the ratio of designers to engineers or PMs on the team Changed the level of designer hired to the team Added new AI-focused roles (e.g., AI design producer, prompt engineer, AI design lead) Merged or eliminated roles previously handled by dedicated specialists No significant structural changes Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How design team structure has changed in the past year Reduced headcount while maintaining or increasing output expectations We are actively discussing potential changes Roles have been significantly redefined but not eliminated Increased headcount Changed the ratio of designers to engineers or PMs on the team Changed the level of designer hired to the team Added new AI-focused roles (e.g., AI design producer, prompt engineer, AI design lead) Merged or eliminated roles previously handled by dedicated specialists No significant structural changes Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How design team structure has changed in the past year Reduced headcount while maintaining or increasing output expectations We are actively discussing potential changes Roles have been significantly redefined but not eliminated Increased headcount Changed the ratio of designers to engineers or PMs on the team Changed the level of designer hired to the team Added new AI-focused roles (e.g., AI design producer, prompt engineer, AI design lead) Merged or eliminated roles previously handled by dedicated specialists No significant structural changes Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 When we asked design leaders about their ideal makeup of a product team today, “product designer” was the most-selected role—but only 71% of leaders chose it, meaning that nearly a third of responding leaders may no longer see a product designer as essential to every product team. Among the leaders who didn’t select “product designer” as a core role, 72% selected “design engineer” and 44% selected “AI design specialist.” This doesn’t mean the product designer is going away, but it suggests that teams are changing into new configurations that better match how AI-native teams work. When we asked design leaders about their ideal makeup of a product team today, “product designer” 60% of design leaders expect to keep or grow design headcount—they’re also hiring differently Hiring & careers Hiring & careers 4. 60% of design leaders expect to keep or grow design headcount—they’re also hiring differently 28% of design leaders surveyed plan to grow their teams, and 32% expect to keep headcount the same (while increasing output expectations). Meanwhile, 10% expect to reduce, and 21% aren’t sure yet. 8% say they’re shifting investment toward hybrid roles like design engineers. 28% of design leaders surveyed plan to grow their teams, and 32% expect to keep headcount the same (while increasing output expectations). How leaders are thinking about design headcount over the next year We expect design headcount to stay roughly the same, but output expectations to increase We expect to grow the design team We're not sure yet We expect to reduce design headcount We're shifting investment toward hybrid roles (e.g., design engineers) Other Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How leaders are thinking about design headcount over the next year We expect design headcount to stay roughly the same, but output expectations to increase We expect to grow the design team We're not sure yet We expect to reduce design headcount We're shifting investment toward hybrid roles (e.g., design engineers) Other Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How leaders are thinking about design headcount over the next year We expect design headcount to stay roughly the same, but output expectations to increase We expect to grow the design team We're not sure yet We expect to reduce design headcount We're shifting investment toward hybrid roles (e.g., design engineers) Other Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How leaders are thinking about design headcount over the next year We expect design headcount to stay roughly the same, but output expectations to increase We expect to grow the design team We're not sure yet We expect to reduce design headcount We're shifting investment toward hybrid roles (e.g., design engineers) Other Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 “ We have a big team and it’s growing a ton. When I get back to my computer, my DMs are full of PMs and engineers asking for staff designers. Demand for design is as high as I’ve ever felt it. Joel Lewenstein Head of Product Design, Anthropic “ [We have] a few teams where the org decided to eliminate the design team and give PM design responsibility via Cursor and Lovable. The output was garbage and terrible design, but the org didn't deem design a critical factor so it was good enough. Executive Publicly traded company “ We have a big team and it’s growing a ton. Executive Publicly traded company Even in organizations where headcount holds steady, expectations are expanding. In late 2025 and early 2026, engineering teams have accelerated output more dramatically with AI than designers have so far. The result: Each designer is being asked to cover more surface area, supporting a higher volume of engineering and product work without necessarily seeing proportional growth on the design side. Even in organizations where headcount holds steady, expectations are expanding. The importance of systems thinking The importance of systems thinking The importance of systems thinking The importance of systems thinking Half of the leaders we surveyed report that when they hire designers now, they’re placing greater emphasis on AI fluency, followed by systems thinking and strategic skills. 22% are placing more emphasis on technical or coding skills. Quality and polish are still important: only 5% are placing less emphasis on execution craft. Half of the leaders we surveyed report that when they hire designers now, they’re placing greater emphasis on AI fluency, followed by systems thinking and strategic skills. Changes to what leaders are looking for when hiring designers Greater emphasis on AI tool fluency Greater emphasis on systems thinking and strategic skills Greater emphasis on technical / coding skills Not much has changed in how we evaluate candidates Open to hiring people from non-traditional design backgrounds Less emphasis on execution craft (e.g., pixel-level polishing) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Changes to what leaders are looking for when hiring designers Greater emphasis on AI tool fluency Greater emphasis on systems thinking and strategic skills Greater emphasis on technical / coding skills Not much has changed in how we evaluate candidates Open to hiring people from non-traditional design backgrounds Less emphasis on execution craft (e.g., pixel-level polishing) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Changes to what leaders are looking for when hiring designers Greater emphasis on AI tool fluency Greater emphasis on systems thinking and strategic skills Greater emphasis on technical / coding skills Not much has changed in how we evaluate candidates Open to hiring people from non-traditional design backgrounds Less emphasis on execution craft (e.g., pixel-level polishing) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Changes to what leaders are looking for when hiring designers Greater emphasis on AI tool fluency Greater emphasis on systems thinking and strategic skills Greater emphasis on technical / coding skills Not much has changed in how we evaluate candidates Open to hiring people from non-traditional design backgrounds Less emphasis on execution craft (e.g., pixel-level polishing) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 In qualitative responses, leaders described a landscape of hiring priorities that include technical skills, business sense, and good old craft fundamentals. And, perhaps most important of all: adaptability. Joel Lewenstein, Head of Product Design at Anthropic, says, “Because the job is changing so fast, we look for people who have explored a lot of the tools and really rethought their design process—you have to go through that molting almost every couple of months now. “We also look for strong opinions about what AI is going to mean. I wouldn’t expect candidates to know the right answer, but having thought through that set of problems to say, ‘this is the type of software I think people will be using in 3, 6, 18, 24 months.’ “The best designers I’ve seen are capable of mode shifting really fast between shining a spotlight on a mountaintop and saying, ‘That’s where we’re going,’ then putting the flashlight in front of them and taking a few steps forward. They’re writing production code, generating mockups quickly, and getting user feedback quickly to keep teams moving at the blistering pace we’re all moving in.” Designers who can hold a vision of the future while executing on the details are more valuable than ever to teams navigating this new world. In qualitative responses, leaders described a landscape of hiring priorities that include technical skills, business sense, and good old craft fundamentals. “ We no longer see speed of execution as a differentiator. Instead of hiring solid executors, we hire visionaries. We look for the ability to articulate, which helps to write prompts and explain design choices. Netali Jakubovitz VP of Product, Maze “ Designers will probably have one of two paths. Either you get more technical or more business savvy. And the unicorn is the person who can do both—work out what the business needs and ship it with high craft quality. Recently, we've hired seasoned, strong technical designers onto the team to be role models. Shali Nguyen Head of Consumer Experience Design, DoorDash “ AI fluency is now part of our formal hiring criteria. I look for candidates who are prototyping and shipping with AI, and who bring the curiosity to keep learning where these tools succeed and fail. Understanding the underlying models and concepts really helps, since we're designing an AI-native product. Phil Vander Broek Head of Design, AI, Superhuman “ We no longer see speed of execution as a differentiator. Phil Vander Broek Head of Design, AI, Superhuman “ The role will become more technical, a designer-engineer hybrid, and they’ll be doing more PM, data science, and UX research work. If you plug in MCPs, you have answers to every question you could ever imagine. David Stinnette Director of Product Design, Samsara “ Craft is more important than ever. If your portfolio doesn't have high-quality work, using AI tools won't get you far. Understanding the fundamentals is still very important. Elizabeth Lin Design Program Manager, Ramp “ It feels nonnegotiable now that designers should work all the way through to components. I’ve pushed technical and prototyping skills into the core competencies—and I want to see how AI has fundamentally changed a designer’s practice. Anisha Jain VP of Design, Abridge “ The role will become more technical, a designer-engineer hybrid, and they’ll be doing more PM, data science, and UX research work. Anisha Jain VP of Design, Abridge In Practice Rethinking the interview Garrett Fowler, design recruiter and founder of Offsite, suggests moving beyond the standard portfolio walkthrough to better assess how designers work with AI: Fishbowl approach. Give the candidate a randomized prompt and two hours to build a working AI product alongside the interviewer. You see how they think, where they get stuck, and how they recover, which a polished portfolio doesn’t quite capture. Ask candidates to revisit a past project and reimagine it with AI or agents at the center. This tests how they think about what’s possible now, as opposed to what they’ve shipped before. In Practice Rethinking the interview Garrett Fowler, design recruiter and founder of Offsite, suggests moving beyond the standard portfolio walkthrough to better assess how designers work with AI: Fishbowl approach. The skills designers are prioritizing The skills designers are prioritizing The skills designers are prioritizing The skills designers are prioritizing Like leaders, designers value AI fluency and rank it as the top skill they want to cultivate. While 43% of respondents value coding abilities, even more selected capabilities like strategic problem framing, creative direction, storytelling, systems thinking, and business judgment. Like leaders, designers value AI fluency and rank it as the top skill they want to cultivate. The skills designers value most in their work today compared to a year ago AI fluency - knowing how and when to use AI effectively Creative direction and aesthetic judgment Communicating and storytelling around design decisions Strategic problem framing Systems thinking and information architecture Business judgment Working with code or understanding technical constraints Cross-functional collaboration and facilitation Prototyping and technical implementation User research and empathy-driven synthesis Pixel-perfect visual execution Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 The skills designers value most in their work today compared to a year ago AI fluency - knowing how and when to use AI effectively Creative direction and aesthetic judgment Communicating and storytelling around design decisions Strategic problem framing Systems thinking and information architecture Business judgment Working with code or understanding technical constraints Cross-functional collaboration and facilitation Prototyping and technical implementation User research and empathy-driven synthesis Pixel-perfect visual execution Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 The skills designers value most in their work today compared to a year ago AI fluency - knowing how and when to use AI effectively Creative direction and aesthetic judgment Communicating and storytelling around design decisions Strategic problem framing Systems thinking and information architecture Business judgment Working with code or understanding technical constraints Cross-functional collaboration and facilitation Prototyping and technical implementation User research and empathy-driven synthesis Pixel-perfect visual execution Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 The skills designers value most in their work today compared to a year ago AI fluency - knowing how and when to use AI effectively Creative direction and aesthetic judgment Communicating and storytelling around design decisions Strategic problem framing Systems thinking and information architecture Business judgment Working with code or understanding technical constraints Cross-functional collaboration and facilitation Prototyping and technical implementation User research and empathy-driven synthesis Pixel-perfect visual execution Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 “ Technical skills are now a baseline expectation for all product designers, and this is a steep learning curve for many. For early career designers, there’s an opportunity to get ahead. It’s a great time to bring in early talent, where we see a high level of technical fluency, to accelerate the development of these skills. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ “ Technical skills are now a baseline expectation for all product designers, and this is a steep learning curve for many. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ Technical skills are now a baseline expectation for all product designers, and this is a steep learning curve for many. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ Where do we go from here? A few questions hang over the role changes we’ve discussed, and we look to the future for clarity: How will design get done as more people have design capabilities? When PMs, engineers, and anyone skilled with AI tools can produce product interfaces and brand systems, what does professional design uniquely contribute? Will we see fewer specialized design roles, or will specialists become more valuable as more design work gets automated? How does that contribution show up in scope, compensation, and influence? How might the next generation of designers evolve? Junior roles have always been the entry point into the design craft, and they may be the most exposed to AI substitution. If juniors start working with AI from the get-go, where do discipline and taste come from? Will we start to see more apprenticeship models like Shopify ’s? How will job titles change to encompass new roles and responsibilities? Will there be more product and brand designers, or fewer? What will happen to the design engineer label? in them take off, and are they here to stay? Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways 01 Designers are learning more from one other than from leadership. One of the most impactful ways leaders can help their teams get ahead on AI adoption is to create ample space for knowledge sharing and time for experimentation. 02 The relationship between designers and other functions is transforming. As design capabilities become more distributed across product teams, designers can empower everyone in the company to build better with AI by becoming the “glue” that upholds the company’s vision, user empathy, and high bar for craft. They can also architect practical AI workflows that empower everyone to work within design guardrails. 03 Official company policy is still catching up. Despite increased expectations, few companies have made formal changes to performance evaluation metrics, career ladders, and official team structure. 04 Hiring managers are looking for strategic skills. Most leaders we surveyed plan to keep or grow design headcount, and the attributes they say they’re screening for most are AI fluency, systems thinking, strategic skills, and storytelling. 01 Designers are learning more from one other than from leadership. Further reading FURTHER READING Relevant posts & resources “Three Months in Code: A Designer’s Identity Crisis” — Jamie Gunson watershed.com “The Design Paradox” — Ethan Eismann www.ethaneismann.com “The Death and Rebirth of Design Ops” — Michelle Morrison open.substack.com “State of the Designer 2026” — Figma www.figma.com “The T-Shaped Designer is Dead” — Jesse Showalter www.jesseshowalter.com/ “How to Level Up with AI as a Designer” — Brian Lovin and Michael Riddering www.dive.club Further reading FURTHER READING Relevant posts & resources “Three Months in Code: A Designer’s Identity Crisis” — Brian Lovin and Michael Riddering www.dive.club Further reading FURTHER READING “Three Months in Code: A Designer’s Identity Crisis” — Brian Lovin and Michael Riddering www.dive.club Get new case studies & report markdown Download the markdown version of the report, ready to drop into any tool. Get notified as new case studies go live. Submit By subscribing, you agree to receive communications from Designer Fund and Foundation Capital in accordance with their privacy policies. Methodology This report draws from 0 Survey responses 0 + Interviews 0 + Public sources Report Partners Anthropic Framer Stripe Sierra Notion Shopify Linear Report Read the Report About Case Studies ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Made in Framer by ++hellohello Get new case studies & report markdown Download the markdown version of the report, ready to drop into any tool. All rights reserved Made in Framer by ++hellohello