 Tools - AI in Design Report 2026 About About Case Studies Case Studies Read the Report Read the Report Tools 01 Craft 02 Teams 03 ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Sierra 01 Linear 02 Shopify 03 Coming soon Stripe 04 Coming soon Anthropic 05 Coming soon Notion 06 Coming soon Framer 07 Coming soon ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Menu Menu ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Report Chapters Case Studies About Back Tools 01 Craft 02 Teams 03 Back Sierra 01 Linear 02 Shopify 03 Coming soon Stripe 04 Coming soon Anthropic 05 Coming soon Notion 06 Coming soon Framer 07 Coming soon ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Menu Menu ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Report Chapters Case Studies About Back Tools 01 Craft 02 Teams 03 Back Sierra 01 Linear 02 Shopify 03 Coming soon Stripe 04 Coming soon Anthropic 05 Coming soon Notion 06 Coming soon Framer 07 Coming soon ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved 01 . Tools The great toolstack shakeup Reading time: 25 min 01 . Tools The great toolstack shakeup Reading time: 25 min 01 . Tools The great toolstack shakeup Reading time: 25 min 01 . Tools The great toolstack shakeup Reading time: 25 min While AI usage has surged, most designers still don’t have a set of go-to tools 0 % use AI weekly up from 54% in 2025 0 average tools per designer up from 3 in 2025 0 % use Claude overtaking ChatGPT at 65% While AI usage has surged, most designers still don’t have a set of go-to tools 0 % use AI weekly up from 54% in 2025 0 average tools per designer up from 3 in 2025 0 % use Claude overtaking ChatGPT at 65% While AI usage has surged, most designers still don’t have a set of go-to tools 0 % use AI weekly up from 54% in 2025 0 average tools per designer up from 3 in 2025 0 % use Claude overtaking ChatGPT at 65% While AI usage has surged, most designers still don’t have a set of go-to tools 0 % use AI weekly up from 54% in 2025 0 average tools per designer up from 3 in 2025 0 % use Claude overtaking ChatGPT at 65% A year ago, designers in tech were largely experimenting with AI tools. These showed up in ideation and prototyping but rarely made it to production workflows. In 2026, AI is used across every phase of design work, with 91% using AI for design tasks at least weekly, up from 54% in 2025. The average toolstack has more than doubled, from 3 tools to 7. And the tools themselves have turned over: Claude has overtaken ChatGPT, Figma’s role has shifted, and coding tools have rapidly emerged as a core part of the design process. But while the individual tools are becoming more capable, the stack itself is becoming less stable. Nearly half of designers say they're still searching for their go-to tools. And it’s easier to build custom software, making the stack much more fluid than we’ve ever seen it. This raises the question: Will we ever go back to a “standard” design toolset? This chapter maps what designers are using, how AI usage varies by company type, and what makes tools stick (or not). See Methodology Tool usage Tool Usage 1. Frequent AI usage jumped from 54% to 91% in one year Tool usage Tool Usage 1. Frequent AI usage jumped from 54% to 91% in one year Tool usage Tool Usage 1. Frequent AI usage jumped from 54% to 91% in one year Tool usage Tool Usage 1. Frequent AI usage jumped from 54% to 91% in one year 91% of respondents now use AI in their design work at least weekly, up from 54% in 2025—a 37-point jump year over year. 75% of surveyed designers use it daily. 91% of respondents now use AI in their design work at least weekly, up from 54% in 2025—a 37-point jump year over year. 75% of surveyed designers use it daily. 91% of respondents now use AI in their design work at least weekly, up from 54% in 2025—a 37-point jump year over year. 75% of surveyed designers use it daily. 91% of respondents now use AI in their design work at least weekly, up from 54% in 2025—a 37-point jump year over year. 75% of surveyed designers use it daily. How often designers use AI in their design work How often designers use AI in their design work 75 % 16 % 4 % 3 % 2 % Daily ( 75 %) Several times a week ( 16 %) Once a week ( 4 %) A few times a month ( 3 %) Rarely or almost never ( 2 %) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How often designers use AI in their design work How often designers use AI in their design work 75 % 16 % 4 % 3 % 2 % Daily ( 75 %) Several times a week ( 16 %) Once a week ( 4 %) A few times a month ( 3 %) Rarely or almost never ( 2 %) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How often designers use AI in their design work How often designers use AI in their design work 75 % 16 % 4 % 3 % 2 % Daily ( 75 %) Several times a week ( 16 %) Once a week ( 4 %) A few times a month ( 3 %) Rarely or almost never ( 2 %) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How often designers use AI in their design work How often designers use AI in their design work 75 % 16 % 4 % 3 % 2 % Daily ( 75 %) Several times a week ( 16 %) Once a week ( 4 %) A few times a month ( 3 %) Rarely or almost never ( 2 %) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Regular AI usage among designers (at least weekly) 2026 91 % 2025 54 % Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Regular AI usage among designers (at least weekly) 2026 91 % 2025 54 % Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Regular AI usage among designers (at least weekly) 2026 91 % 2025 54 % Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Regular AI usage among designers (at least weekly) 2026 91 % 2025 54 % Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Designers are using AI end-to-end Designers are using AI end-to-end Designers are using AI end-to-end Designers are using AI end-to-end AI has moved from "we use it somewhere in the process" to "we use it at every step." In 2025, the designers we surveyed were mostly using AI in the exploration and creation phases. Only 39% used it in delivery. But today, every workflow we asked about shows meaningful AI adoption. The leading use cases are ideation, prototyping, and UI copy. And in our interviews, designers described continuous AI use across a project, rather than confining it to any one stage. The biggest year-over-year movers include code generation, documentation, design QA, and developer handoff. These workflows sat closer to the edges of design practice a year ago. Most notably, designers in our interviews often mentioned their newfound ability to ship code and build high-fidelity prototypes. 50% of survey respondents say they’ve shipped code to production (read more about AI coding in Craft ). AI has moved from "we use it somewhere in the process" to "we use it at every step." In 2025, the designers we surveyed were mostly using AI in the exploration and creation phases. Only 39% used it in delivery. But today, every workflow we asked about shows meaningful AI adoption. The leading use cases are ideation, prototyping, and UI copy. And in our interviews, designers described continuous AI use across a project, rather than confining it to any one stage. The biggest year-over-year movers include code generation, documentation, design QA, and developer handoff. These workflows sat closer to the edges of design practice a year ago. Most notably, designers in our interviews often mentioned their newfound ability to ship code and build high-fidelity prototypes. 50% of survey respondents say they’ve shipped code to production (read more about AI coding in Craft ). AI has moved from "we use it somewhere in the process" to "we use it at every step." In 2025, the designers we surveyed were mostly using AI in the exploration and creation phases. Only 39% used it in delivery. But today, every workflow we asked about shows meaningful AI adoption. The leading use cases are ideation, prototyping, and UI copy. And in our interviews, designers described continuous AI use across a project, rather than confining it to any one stage. The biggest year-over-year movers include code generation, documentation, design QA, and developer handoff. These workflows sat closer to the edges of design practice a year ago. Most notably, designers in our interviews often mentioned their newfound ability to ship code and build high-fidelity prototypes. 50% of survey respondents say they’ve shipped code to production (read more about AI coding in Craft ). AI has moved from "we use it somewhere in the process" to "we use it at every step." In 2025, the designers we surveyed were mostly using AI in the exploration and creation phases. Only 39% used it in delivery. But today, every workflow we asked about shows meaningful AI adoption. The leading use cases are ideation, prototyping, and UI copy. And in our interviews, designers described continuous AI use across a project, rather than confining it to any one stage. The biggest year-over-year movers include code generation, documentation, design QA, and developer handoff. These workflows sat closer to the edges of design practice a year ago. Most notably, designers in our interviews often mentioned their newfound ability to ship code and build high-fidelity prototypes. 50% of survey respondents say they’ve shipped code to production (read more about AI coding in Craft ). How designers use AI in 2026, and what’s changed since 2025 Ideation and concept exploration Prototyping UI copy and content writing +18pts User research and synthesis +9pts Documentation and specs Code generation and front-end implementation +31pts Image or video generation +9pts Wireframing +27pts Design systems and components +24pts Stakeholder presentations -4pts High-fidelity visual design Design QA and accessibility +16pts Developer handoff +12pts Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How designers use AI in 2026, and what’s changed since 2025 Ideation and concept exploration Prototyping UI copy and content writing +18pts User research and synthesis +9pts Documentation and specs Code generation and front-end implementation +31pts Image or video generation +9pts Wireframing +27pts Design systems and components +24pts Stakeholder presentations -4pts High-fidelity visual design Design QA and accessibility +16pts Developer handoff +12pts Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How designers use AI in 2026, and what’s changed since 2025 Ideation and concept exploration Prototyping UI copy and content writing +18pts User research and synthesis +9pts Documentation and specs Code generation and front-end implementation +31pts Image or video generation +9pts Wireframing +27pts Design systems and components +24pts Stakeholder presentations -4pts High-fidelity visual design Design QA and accessibility +16pts Developer handoff +12pts Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 How designers use AI in 2026, and what’s changed since 2025 Ideation and concept exploration Prototyping UI copy and content writing +18pts User research and synthesis +9pts Documentation and specs Code generation and front-end implementation +31pts Image or video generation +9pts Wireframing +27pts Design systems and components +24pts Stakeholder presentations -4pts High-fidelity visual design Design QA and accessibility +16pts Developer handoff +12pts Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 “ AI collapsed the distance between idea and execution. I can now own and drive projects end-to-end at a scale that would've required a full team before. The experimentation ceiling basically disappeared. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ “ AI collapsed the distance between idea and execution. I can now own and drive projects end-to-end at a scale that would've required a full team before. The experimentation ceiling basically disappeared. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ “ AI collapsed the distance between idea and execution. I can now own and drive projects end-to-end at a scale that would've required a full team before. The experimentation ceiling basically disappeared. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ AI collapsed the distance between idea and execution. I can now own and drive projects end-to-end at a scale that would've required a full team before. The experimentation ceiling basically disappeared. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ Note: This report includes quotes from our anonymous survey in March 2026. Respondents are identified only by their role level and the stage of the company they work for. Note: This report includes quotes from our anonymous survey in March 2026. Respondents are identified only by their role level and the stage of the company they work for. Note: This report includes quotes from our anonymous survey in March 2026. Respondents are identified only by their role level and the stage of the company they work for. Note: This report includes quotes from our anonymous survey in March 2026. Respondents are identified only by their role level and the stage of the company they work for. A closer look AI workflows in action Typography audit: Joey Banks, founder of Baseline Design, combined Claude, the Figma MCP Server, Claude Design, and Claude Code in one morning to audit typography across a large component library, consolidate styles, and prototype a token-reference site. Research queries: At Abridge, an AI platform for clinicians, any designer or PM can query research directly in Slack, says Anisha Jain, their VP of Design. An agent pulls from the repository, returns data-backed answers, and suggests next studies. Marketing animation: Independent designer Hunter Thompson used Flora AI and Claude Code to generate a custom animation in an afternoon that previously wouldn't have been worth the effort: “This type of interaction would have taken days and would never have been justified.” A closer look AI workflows in action Typography audit: Joey Banks, founder of Baseline Design, combined Claude, the Figma MCP Server, Claude Design, and Claude Code in one morning to audit typography across a large component library, consolidate styles, and prototype a token-reference site. Research queries: At Abridge, an AI platform for clinicians, any designer or PM can query research directly in Slack, says Anisha Jain, their VP of Design. An agent pulls from the repository, returns data-backed answers, and suggests next studies. Marketing animation: Independent designer Hunter Thompson used Flora AI and Claude Code to generate a custom animation in an afternoon that previously wouldn't have been worth the effort: “This type of interaction would have taken days and would never have been justified.” A closer look AI workflows in action Typography audit: Joey Banks, founder of Baseline Design, combined Claude, the Figma MCP Server, Claude Design, and Claude Code in one morning to audit typography across a large component library, consolidate styles, and prototype a token-reference site. Research queries: At Abridge, an AI platform for clinicians, any designer or PM can query research directly in Slack, says Anisha Jain, their VP of Design. An agent pulls from the repository, returns data-backed answers, and suggests next studies. Marketing animation: Independent designer Hunter Thompson used Flora AI and Claude Code to generate a custom animation in an afternoon that previously wouldn't have been worth the effort: “This type of interaction would have taken days and would never have been justified.” A closer look AI workflows in action Typography audit: Joey Banks, founder of Baseline Design, combined Claude, the Figma MCP Server, Claude Design, and Claude Code in one morning to audit typography across a large component library, consolidate styles, and prototype a token-reference site. Research queries: At Abridge, an AI platform for clinicians, any designer or PM can query research directly in Slack, says Anisha Jain, their VP of Design. An agent pulls from the repository, returns data-backed answers, and suggests next studies. Marketing animation: Independent designer Hunter Thompson used Flora AI and Claude Code to generate a custom animation in an afternoon that previously wouldn't have been worth the effort: “This type of interaction would have taken days and would never have been justified.” The 2026 stack The 2026 stack 2. The designer’s AI toolstack has more than doubled The 2026 stack The 2026 stack 2. The designer’s AI toolstack has more than doubled The 2026 stack The 2026 stack 2. The designer’s AI toolstack has more than doubled The 2026 stack The 2026 stack 2. The designer’s AI toolstack has more than doubled Designers we surveyed now use an average of 7 off-the-shelf AI tools, up from 3 last year—this is the case across respondents from different roles, company sizes, and geographies. And this tally doesn’t take into account the full number of bespoke tools they build for themselves or internally built tools their company provides. We saw a major rise in these “internal” company tools—covered in more detail below. Designers we surveyed now use an average of 7 off-the-shelf AI tools, up from 3 last year—this is the case across respondents from different roles, company sizes, and geographies. And this tally doesn’t take into account the full number of bespoke tools they build for themselves or internally built tools their company provides. We saw a major rise in these “internal” company tools—covered in more detail below. Designers we surveyed now use an average of 7 off-the-shelf AI tools, up from 3 last year—this is the case across respondents from different roles, company sizes, and geographies. And this tally doesn’t take into account the full number of bespoke tools they build for themselves or internally built tools their company provides. We saw a major rise in these “internal” company tools—covered in more detail below. Designers we surveyed now use an average of 7 off-the-shelf AI tools, up from 3 last year—this is the case across respondents from different roles, company sizes, and geographies. And this tally doesn’t take into account the full number of bespoke tools they build for themselves or internally built tools their company provides. We saw a major rise in these “internal” company tools—covered in more detail below. The 2026 AI toolstack General AI Design-Specific Coding and Dev Research Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 The 2026 AI toolstack General AI Design-Specific Coding and Dev Research Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 The 2026 AI toolstack General AI Design-Specific Coding and Dev Research Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 The 2026 AI toolstack General AI Design-Specific Coding and Dev Research Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Coding tools have found their place in the go-to design stack. In 2026, 76% of all respondents say they’ve used an AI coding tool like Claude Code, OpenAI Codex, Cursor, or GitHub Copilot. 85% have used these and/or an app builder like Lovable, Replit, or Bolt. Coding tools have found their place in the go-to design stack. In 2026, 76% of all respondents say they’ve used an AI coding tool like Claude Code, OpenAI Codex, Cursor, or GitHub Copilot. 85% have used these and/or an app builder like Lovable, Replit, or Bolt. Coding tools have found their place in the go-to design stack. In 2026, 76% of all respondents say they’ve used an AI coding tool like Claude Code, OpenAI Codex, Cursor, or GitHub Copilot. 85% have used these and/or an app builder like Lovable, Replit, or Bolt. Coding tools have found their place in the go-to design stack. In 2026, 76% of all respondents say they’ve used an AI coding tool like Claude Code, OpenAI Codex, Cursor, or GitHub Copilot. 85% have used these and/or an app builder like Lovable, Replit, or Bolt. Claude has overtaken ChatGPT as the primary general AI tool Claude has overtaken ChatGPT as the primary general AI tool Claude has overtaken ChatGPT as the primary general AI tool Claude has overtaken ChatGPT as the primary general AI tool 78% of respondents use Claude, compared to 65% for ChatGPT, which led in 2025. Gemini comes in third at 48%, and Perplexity has dropped from 34% to 13%. 65% of overall respondents are using Claude Code, which didn’t even make it onto our 2025 survey because it hadn’t launched to the public yet. 78% of respondents use Claude, compared to 65% for ChatGPT, which led in 2025. Gemini comes in third at 48%, and Perplexity has dropped from 34% to 13%. 65% of overall respondents are using Claude Code, which didn’t even make it onto our 2025 survey because it hadn’t launched to the public yet. 78% of respondents use Claude, compared to 65% for ChatGPT, which led in 2025. Gemini comes in third at 48%, and Perplexity has dropped from 34% to 13%. 65% of overall respondents are using Claude Code, which didn’t even make it onto our 2025 survey because it hadn’t launched to the public yet. 78% of respondents use Claude, compared to 65% for ChatGPT, which led in 2025. Gemini comes in third at 48%, and Perplexity has dropped from 34% to 13%. 65% of overall respondents are using Claude Code, which didn’t even make it onto our 2025 survey because it hadn’t launched to the public yet. Disclosure: Anthropic, the creator of Claude, is a partner of the AI in Design 2026 survey. The survey was conducted independently of our partners. Disclosure: Anthropic, the creator of Claude, is a partner of the AI in Design 2026 survey. The survey was conducted independently of our partners. Disclosure: Anthropic, the creator of Claude, is a partner of the AI in Design 2026 survey. The survey was conducted independently of our partners. Disclosure: Anthropic, the creator of Claude, is a partner of the AI in Design 2026 survey. The survey was conducted independently of our partners. General AI tools: year-over-year shift 2025 2026 Claude ChatGPT Gemini Perplexity Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 General AI tools: year-over-year shift 2025 2026 Claude ChatGPT Gemini Perplexity Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 General AI tools: year-over-year shift 2025 2026 Claude ChatGPT Gemini Perplexity Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 General AI tools: year-over-year shift 2025 2026 Claude ChatGPT Gemini Perplexity Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 The canvas is shifting The canvas is shifting The canvas is shifting The canvas is shifting According to the UX Tools State of Prototyping survey, Figma remains the most-used design tool in 2026. But how designers use it may be changing. Some say Figma is their starting point for AI. They explore multiple directions in the canvas before going deep in code, or they create wireframes in Figma and pass them to AI. It remains a favorite place to ideate and collect inspiration, and respondents also pointed out that it’s still the best tool for team collaboration. Other designers are using Figma as a “scalpel” or finishing tool in their AI-first design process. They prototype in a dev environment, then flip back to Figma for high-fidelity execution or precise tuning like perfecting radii and padding. On the other end of the spectrum, we heard from code-first designers who rarely spend their time in Figma now. At Maze, designers work in Cursor from day zero. At Watershed, the design team has fully transitioned to working directly in the codebase. According to the UX Tools State of Prototyping survey, Figma remains the most-used design tool in 2026. But how designers use it may be changing. Some say Figma is their starting point for AI. They explore multiple directions in the canvas before going deep in code, or they create wireframes in Figma and pass them to AI. It remains a favorite place to ideate and collect inspiration, and respondents also pointed out that it’s still the best tool for team collaboration. Other designers are using Figma as a “scalpel” or finishing tool in their AI-first design process. They prototype in a dev environment, then flip back to Figma for high-fidelity execution or precise tuning like perfecting radii and padding. On the other end of the spectrum, we heard from code-first designers who rarely spend their time in Figma now. At Maze, designers work in Cursor from day zero. At Watershed, the design team has fully transitioned to working directly in the codebase. According to the UX Tools State of Prototyping survey, Figma remains the most-used design tool in 2026. But how designers use it may be changing. Some say Figma is their starting point for AI. They explore multiple directions in the canvas before going deep in code, or they create wireframes in Figma and pass them to AI. It remains a favorite place to ideate and collect inspiration, and respondents also pointed out that it’s still the best tool for team collaboration. Other designers are using Figma as a “scalpel” or finishing tool in their AI-first design process. They prototype in a dev environment, then flip back to Figma for high-fidelity execution or precise tuning like perfecting radii and padding. On the other end of the spectrum, we heard from code-first designers who rarely spend their time in Figma now. At Maze, designers work in Cursor from day zero. At Watershed, the design team has fully transitioned to working directly in the codebase. According to the UX Tools State of Prototyping survey, Figma remains the most-used design tool in 2026. But how designers use it may be changing. Some say Figma is their starting point for AI. They explore multiple directions in the canvas before going deep in code, or they create wireframes in Figma and pass them to AI. It remains a favorite place to ideate and collect inspiration, and respondents also pointed out that it’s still the best tool for team collaboration. Other designers are using Figma as a “scalpel” or finishing tool in their AI-first design process. They prototype in a dev environment, then flip back to Figma for high-fidelity execution or precise tuning like perfecting radii and padding. On the other end of the spectrum, we heard from code-first designers who rarely spend their time in Figma now. At Maze, designers work in Cursor from day zero. At Watershed, the design team has fully transitioned to working directly in the codebase. “ Figma has shifted from being the primary design tool to a canvas for quick exploration and polishing details as input for Claude Code. Phil Vander Broek Head of Design, AI, Superhuman “ Traditional prototyping took two weeks on average. Now, using vibe-coded prototypes, it's completed in hours. We use Figma as a scalpel now—pull an area out for specific cuts and push it back into the coded prototype. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ Fine grain control is the biggest gap. It's the tuning. It's the 'I know what I want in my head, but you're just not giving me what I want.´ So I need to go into Figma and tell you what I want and then put that back. Shali Nguyen Head of Consumer Experience Design, DoorDash “ Figma has shifted from being the primary design tool to a canvas for quick exploration and polishing details as input for Claude Code. Phil Vander Broek Head of Design, AI, Superhuman “ Traditional prototyping took two weeks on average. Now, using vibe-coded prototypes, it's completed in hours. We use Figma as a scalpel now—pull an area out for specific cuts and push it back into the coded prototype. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ Fine grain control is the biggest gap. It's the tuning. It's the 'I know what I want in my head, but you're just not giving me what I want.´ So I need to go into Figma and tell you what I want and then put that back. Shali Nguyen Head of Consumer Experience Design, DoorDash “ Figma has shifted from being the primary design tool to a canvas for quick exploration and polishing details as input for Claude Code. Phil Vander Broek Head of Design, AI, Superhuman “ Traditional prototyping took two weeks on average. Now, using vibe-coded prototypes, it's completed in hours. We use Figma as a scalpel now—pull an area out for specific cuts and push it back into the coded prototype. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ Fine grain control is the biggest gap. It's the tuning. It's the 'I know what I want in my head, but you're just not giving me what I want.´ So I need to go into Figma and tell you what I want and then put that back. Shali Nguyen Head of Consumer Experience Design, DoorDash “ Figma has shifted from being the primary design tool to a canvas for quick exploration and polishing details as input for Claude Code. Phil Vander Broek Head of Design, AI, Superhuman “ Traditional prototyping took two weeks on average. Now, using vibe-coded prototypes, it's completed in hours. We use Figma as a scalpel now—pull an area out for specific cuts and push it back into the coded prototype. Mark Boyes-Smith Head of AI Design, Miro “ Fine grain control is the biggest gap. It's the tuning. It's the 'I know what I want in my head, but you're just not giving me what I want.´ So I need to go into Figma and tell you what I want and then put that back. Shali Nguyen Head of Consumer Experience Design, DoorDash Some designers are taking a middle path by using a newer generation of design tools like Paper , which are rebuilding the canvas in HTML and CSS. This allows them to continue using a canvas that connects directly to agentic tools, alongside other inputs like text prompts or code. This tool adaptability is part of a broader AI-enabled shift that allows designers to customize their workflows—whether they want to start with code, mood boards, words, pen and paper, or an AI tool’s brainstormed idea. Ryan Mather, a designer at Anthropic, says, “The other week I painted an interface and shared it as input to my AI tool of choice!” Some designers are taking a middle path by using a newer generation of design tools like Paper , which are rebuilding the canvas in HTML and CSS. This allows them to continue using a canvas that connects directly to agentic tools, alongside other inputs like text prompts or code. This tool adaptability is part of a broader AI-enabled shift that allows designers to customize their workflows—whether they want to start with code, mood boards, words, pen and paper, or an AI tool’s brainstormed idea. Ryan Mather, a designer at Anthropic, says, “The other week I painted an interface and shared it as input to my AI tool of choice!” Some designers are taking a middle path by using a newer generation of design tools like Paper , which are rebuilding the canvas in HTML and CSS. This allows them to continue using a canvas that connects directly to agentic tools, alongside other inputs like text prompts or code. This tool adaptability is part of a broader AI-enabled shift that allows designers to customize their workflows—whether they want to start with code, mood boards, words, pen and paper, or an AI tool’s brainstormed idea. Ryan Mather, a designer at Anthropic, says, “The other week I painted an interface and shared it as input to my AI tool of choice!” Some designers are taking a middle path by using a newer generation of design tools like Paper , which are rebuilding the canvas in HTML and CSS. This allows them to continue using a canvas that connects directly to agentic tools, alongside other inputs like text prompts or code. This tool adaptability is part of a broader AI-enabled shift that allows designers to customize their workflows—whether they want to start with code, mood boards, words, pen and paper, or an AI tool’s brainstormed idea. Ryan Mather, a designer at Anthropic, says, “The other week I painted an interface and shared it as input to my AI tool of choice!” Late entry: Claude Design Late entry: Claude Design Late entry: Claude Design Late entry: Claude Design Just after we closed our 2026 survey, Anthropic launched Claude Design, an AI design workspace that generates complete prototypes, decks, one-pagers, and marketing assets. It’s accessible to non-designers like founders, PMs, and marketers who don't live in Figma the same way designers do. We’re interested to see how this tool’s adoption will evolve and whether it becomes part of the standard designer’s toolkit in the next report. Just after we closed our 2026 survey, Anthropic launched Claude Design, an AI design workspace that generates complete prototypes, decks, one-pagers, and marketing assets. It’s accessible to non-designers like founders, PMs, and marketers who don't live in Figma the same way designers do. We’re interested to see how this tool’s adoption will evolve and whether it becomes part of the standard designer’s toolkit in the next report. Just after we closed our 2026 survey, Anthropic launched Claude Design, an AI design workspace that generates complete prototypes, decks, one-pagers, and marketing assets. It’s accessible to non-designers like founders, PMs, and marketers who don't live in Figma the same way designers do. We’re interested to see how this tool’s adoption will evolve and whether it becomes part of the standard designer’s toolkit in the next report. Just after we closed our 2026 survey, Anthropic launched Claude Design, an AI design workspace that generates complete prototypes, decks, one-pagers, and marketing assets. It’s accessible to non-designers like founders, PMs, and marketers who don't live in Figma the same way designers do. We’re interested to see how this tool’s adoption will evolve and whether it becomes part of the standard designer’s toolkit in the next report. “ What if it's not a Claude Design vs. Canva vs. Figma but a 'yes and' as millions more people are exposed to design and use these tools to begin a journey into being better at type, color, composition, effective communication, and building great experiences? These tools will push professional designers to go deeper and broader than we ever had before. In that world, we are all beneficiaries. Ben Blumenrose Managing Partner, Designer Fund “ “ What if it's not a Claude Design vs. Canva vs. Figma but a 'yes and' as millions more people are exposed to design and use these tools to begin a journey into being better at type, color, composition, effective communication, and building great experiences? These tools will push professional designers to go deeper and broader than we ever had before. In that world, we are all beneficiaries. Ben Blumenrose Managing Partner, Designer Fund “ “ What if it's not a Claude Design vs. Canva vs. Figma but a 'yes and' as millions more people are exposed to design and use these tools to begin a journey into being better at type, color, composition, effective communication, and building great experiences? These tools will push professional designers to go deeper and broader than we ever had before. In that world, we are all beneficiaries. Ben Blumenrose Managing Partner, Designer Fund “ What if it's not a Claude Design vs. Canva vs. Figma but a 'yes and' as millions more people are exposed to design and use these tools to begin a journey into being better at type, color, composition, effective communication, and building great experiences? These tools will push professional designers to go deeper and broader than we ever had before. In that world, we are all beneficiaries. Ben Blumenrose Managing Partner, Designer Fund “ What makes tools stick What makes tools stick 3. Output quality is both the most popular driver of stickiness—and the biggest weakness in current AI design tools What makes tools stick What makes tools stick 3. Output quality is both the most popular driver of stickiness—and the biggest weakness in current AI design tools What makes tools stick What makes tools stick 3. Output quality is both the most popular driver of stickiness—and the biggest weakness in current AI design tools What makes tools stick What makes tools stick 3. Output quality is both the most popular driver of stickiness—and the biggest weakness in current AI design tools 80% of designers say reliable, high-quality output is what makes an AI tool stick. At the same time, 62% cite inconsistent or unreliable output as their biggest challenge when using AI for design work. We heard designers say the tools just “aren’t quite there” yet. But they also express how life-changing it would be if they were. Many believe that models will improve so rapidly that AI designs will soon pass art school standards and rival human craft. Other major barriers to adoption include steep learning curves and poor integration with existing tools. At the company level, security and compliance concerns—along with budget constraints—continue to limit adoption, which may contribute to the proliferation of internally built design tools (see examples below). 80% of designers say reliable, high-quality output is what makes an AI tool stick. At the same time, 62% cite inconsistent or unreliable output as their biggest challenge when using AI for design work. We heard designers say the tools just “aren’t quite there” yet. But they also express how life-changing it would be if they were. Many believe that models will improve so rapidly that AI designs will soon pass art school standards and rival human craft. Other major barriers to adoption include steep learning curves and poor integration with existing tools. At the company level, security and compliance concerns—along with budget constraints—continue to limit adoption, which may contribute to the proliferation of internally built design tools (see examples below). 80% of designers say reliable, high-quality output is what makes an AI tool stick. At the same time, 62% cite inconsistent or unreliable output as their biggest challenge when using AI for design work. We heard designers say the tools just “aren’t quite there” yet. But they also express how life-changing it would be if they were. Many believe that models will improve so rapidly that AI designs will soon pass art school standards and rival human craft. Other major barriers to adoption include steep learning curves and poor integration with existing tools. At the company level, security and compliance concerns—along with budget constraints—continue to limit adoption, which may contribute to the proliferation of internally built design tools (see examples below). 80% of designers say reliable, high-quality output is what makes an AI tool stick. At the same time, 62% cite inconsistent or unreliable output as their biggest challenge when using AI for design work. We heard designers say the tools just “aren’t quite there” yet. But they also express how life-changing it would be if they were. Many believe that models will improve so rapidly that AI designs will soon pass art school standards and rival human craft. Other major barriers to adoption include steep learning curves and poor integration with existing tools. At the company level, security and compliance concerns—along with budget constraints—continue to limit adoption, which may contribute to the proliferation of internally built design tools (see examples below). What makes an AI tool stick Reliably high-quality output Easy to use and well-designed Fits into how we already work Integrates with existing tools Offers specific capability no other tool provides Trusted recommendation My team or company standardized on it Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 What makes an AI tool stick Reliably high-quality output Easy to use and well-designed Fits into how we already work Integrates with existing tools Offers specific capability no other tool provides Trusted recommendation My team or company standardized on it Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 What makes an AI tool stick Reliably high-quality output Easy to use and well-designed Fits into how we already work Integrates with existing tools Offers specific capability no other tool provides Trusted recommendation My team or company standardized on it Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 What makes an AI tool stick Reliably high-quality output Easy to use and well-designed Fits into how we already work Integrates with existing tools Offers specific capability no other tool provides Trusted recommendation My team or company standardized on it Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Top challenges of using AI in design work Unreliable or inconsistent output quality Lack of control over output Lack of product/brand context Hard to integrate with existing tools Security, compliance, legal concerns Too time-consuming to learn Budget or cost constraints Concern about skill atrophy No significant challenges Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Top challenges of using AI in design work Unreliable or inconsistent output quality Lack of control over output Lack of product/brand context Hard to integrate with existing tools Security, compliance, legal concerns Too time-consuming to learn Budget or cost constraints Concern about skill atrophy No significant challenges Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Top challenges of using AI in design work Unreliable or inconsistent output quality Lack of control over output Lack of product/brand context Hard to integrate with existing tools Security, compliance, legal concerns Too time-consuming to learn Budget or cost constraints Concern about skill atrophy No significant challenges Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Top challenges of using AI in design work Unreliable or inconsistent output quality Lack of control over output Lack of product/brand context Hard to integrate with existing tools Security, compliance, legal concerns Too time-consuming to learn Budget or cost constraints Concern about skill atrophy No significant challenges Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Because their attention is spread across an ever-growing set of tools, designers are craving both a single, integrated platform that spans the full design process (in the vein of Figma or Sketch) and best-in-class tools for each step. They want seamless integration with existing systems and workflows. And they want to know that these tools will remain stable over time. In an environment where underlying models are evolving so quickly, that expectation may be difficult to meet. Because their attention is spread across an ever-growing set of tools, designers are craving both a single, integrated platform that spans the full design process (in the vein of Figma or Sketch) and best-in-class tools for each step. They want seamless integration with existing systems and workflows. And they want to know that these tools will remain stable over time. In an environment where underlying models are evolving so quickly, that expectation may be difficult to meet. Because their attention is spread across an ever-growing set of tools, designers are craving both a single, integrated platform that spans the full design process (in the vein of Figma or Sketch) and best-in-class tools for each step. They want seamless integration with existing systems and workflows. And they want to know that these tools will remain stable over time. In an environment where underlying models are evolving so quickly, that expectation may be difficult to meet. Because their attention is spread across an ever-growing set of tools, designers are craving both a single, integrated platform that spans the full design process (in the vein of Figma or Sketch) and best-in-class tools for each step. They want seamless integration with existing systems and workflows. And they want to know that these tools will remain stable over time. In an environment where underlying models are evolving so quickly, that expectation may be difficult to meet. “ We need a tool that allows us to seamlessly go from research to discovery to concepting and sketching to prototyping to high fidelity to code, and not necessarily in a linear fashion. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ One go-to tool or less jumping between tools for an optimal end result. Executive Publicly traded company “ [I’d like] one major stack that can be deployed without worry it will be replaced in a few months. Executive Growth-stage company “ We need a tool that allows us to seamlessly go from research to discovery to concepting and sketching to prototyping to high fidelity to code, and not necessarily in a linear fashion. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ One go-to tool or less jumping between tools for an optimal end result. Executive Publicly traded company “ [I’d like] one major stack that can be deployed without worry it will be replaced in a few months. Executive Growth-stage company “ We need a tool that allows us to seamlessly go from research to discovery to concepting and sketching to prototyping to high fidelity to code, and not necessarily in a linear fashion. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ One go-to tool or less jumping between tools for an optimal end result. Executive Publicly traded company “ [I’d like] one major stack that can be deployed without worry it will be replaced in a few months. Executive Growth-stage company “ We need a tool that allows us to seamlessly go from research to discovery to concepting and sketching to prototyping to high fidelity to code, and not necessarily in a linear fashion. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ One go-to tool or less jumping between tools for an optimal end result. Executive Publicly traded company “ [I’d like] one major stack that can be deployed without worry it will be replaced in a few months. Executive Growth-stage company In Practice Evaluating new AI tools When evaluating new AI design tools, start with your team’s actual workflow—not just the quality of a polished demo. The most useful tools fit naturally into existing systems, support collaboration across functions, provide enough control and editability for production work, and save meaningful time without creating new operational overhead. For prompt-based tools, avoid judging them based on one-off “wow” moments. A better approach is to run the same real-world task across several tools using identical inputs, then compare where each succeeds or breaks down: output quality, consistency, controllability, speed, collaboration, handoff readiness, and how much refinement is needed to get to production-quality work. In Practice Evaluating new AI tools When evaluating new AI design tools, start with your team’s actual workflow—not just the quality of a polished demo. The most useful tools fit naturally into existing systems, support collaboration across functions, provide enough control and editability for production work, and save meaningful time without creating new operational overhead. For prompt-based tools, avoid judging them based on one-off “wow” moments. A better approach is to run the same real-world task across several tools using identical inputs, then compare where each succeeds or breaks down: output quality, consistency, controllability, speed, collaboration, handoff readiness, and how much refinement is needed to get to production-quality work. In Practice Evaluating new AI tools When evaluating new AI design tools, start with your team’s actual workflow—not just the quality of a polished demo. The most useful tools fit naturally into existing systems, support collaboration across functions, provide enough control and editability for production work, and save meaningful time without creating new operational overhead. For prompt-based tools, avoid judging them based on one-off “wow” moments. A better approach is to run the same real-world task across several tools using identical inputs, then compare where each succeeds or breaks down: output quality, consistency, controllability, speed, collaboration, handoff readiness, and how much refinement is needed to get to production-quality work. In Practice Evaluating new AI tools When evaluating new AI design tools, start with your team’s actual workflow—not just the quality of a polished demo. The most useful tools fit naturally into existing systems, support collaboration across functions, provide enough control and editability for production work, and save meaningful time without creating new operational overhead. For prompt-based tools, avoid judging them based on one-off “wow” moments. A better approach is to run the same real-world task across several tools using identical inputs, then compare where each succeeds or breaks down: output quality, consistency, controllability, speed, collaboration, handoff readiness, and how much refinement is needed to get to production-quality work. Designers as toolmakers Designers as toolmakers 4. Designers are building their own tools Designers as toolmakers Designers as toolmakers 4. Designers are building their own tools Designers as toolmakers Designers as toolmakers 4. Designers are building their own tools Designers as toolmakers Designers as toolmakers 4. Designers are building their own tools Designers are building bespoke tools—first for themselves, then for their teammates—by encoding their judgment, taste, and design systems into workflow infrastructure. This is one of the most compelling shifts we’ve observed over the last year: designers as toolmakers. The most sought-after designers today share this behavior. If designers were previously evaluated on their output, now they are evaluated on both their output and the workflows they build. Designers are building bespoke tools—first for themselves, then for their teammates—by encoding their judgment, taste, and design systems into workflow infrastructure. This is one of the most compelling shifts we’ve observed over the last year: designers as toolmakers. The most sought-after designers today share this behavior. If designers were previously evaluated on their output, now they are evaluated on both their output and the workflows they build. Designers are building bespoke tools—first for themselves, then for their teammates—by encoding their judgment, taste, and design systems into workflow infrastructure. This is one of the most compelling shifts we’ve observed over the last year: designers as toolmakers. The most sought-after designers today share this behavior. If designers were previously evaluated on their output, now they are evaluated on both their output and the workflows they build. Designers are building bespoke tools—first for themselves, then for their teammates—by encoding their judgment, taste, and design systems into workflow infrastructure. This is one of the most compelling shifts we’ve observed over the last year: designers as toolmakers. The most sought-after designers today share this behavior. If designers were previously evaluated on their output, now they are evaluated on both their output and the workflows they build. “ One thing that surprised me is how often I’ve stopped paying for tools and just built them myself. Now, whenever I encounter a product or subscription, my default question is: Can I replicate this with AI? And surprisingly often, the answer is yes. Manager Early-stage startup “ “ One thing that surprised me is how often I’ve stopped paying for tools and just built them myself. Now, whenever I encounter a product or subscription, my default question is: Can I replicate this with AI? And surprisingly often, the answer is yes. Manager Early-stage startup “ “ One thing that surprised me is how often I’ve stopped paying for tools and just built them myself. Now, whenever I encounter a product or subscription, my default question is: Can I replicate this with AI? And surprisingly often, the answer is yes. Manager Early-stage startup “ One thing that surprised me is how often I’ve stopped paying for tools and just built them myself. Now, whenever I encounter a product or subscription, my default question is: Can I replicate this with AI? And surprisingly often, the answer is yes. Manager Early-stage startup “ Personalized software, custom-made for how you work At the individual level, designers are creating microtools when they have a specific need that an off-the-shelf tool can’t meet, like automating a tiny but repetitive step in their process. They’re also generating full-fledged apps that better fit their styles of thinking and communicating. “You can mold the tool to the thing you’re doing,” says Ryan Mather, a designer at Anthropic. “Need a quick dark mode simulator? Sure, just ask for one. Need to mock up mobile, wait no, tablet, wait no, desktop? Sure! Not a problem to make these schleps that used to be so hard, sometimes you just wouldn't make them.” Examples of tools created by designers: Gavin Potenza built Moodboard 3000 , a Figma plugin that generates composed moodboards. Amelia Wattenberger built a thought-organizing tool that turns spoken or typed ideas into structured cards in real time. Brian Lovin built shiori.sh , a minimal read-it-later desktop app that captures content, transcripts, and summaries. One survey respondent noted: “I built an app that adds an iPhone bezel when I 'copy as png' from Figma and it's so magical!” Personalized software, custom-made for how you work At the individual level, designers are creating microtools when they have a specific need that an off-the-shelf tool can’t meet, like automating a tiny but repetitive step in their process. They’re also generating full-fledged apps that better fit their styles of thinking and communicating. “You can mold the tool to the thing you’re doing,” says Ryan Mather, a designer at Anthropic. “Need a quick dark mode simulator? Sure, just ask for one. Need to mock up mobile, wait no, tablet, wait no, desktop? Sure! Not a problem to make these schleps that used to be so hard, sometimes you just wouldn't make them.” Examples of tools created by designers: Gavin Potenza built Moodboard 3000 , a Figma plugin that generates composed moodboards. Amelia Wattenberger built a thought-organizing tool that turns spoken or typed ideas into structured cards in real time. Brian Lovin built shiori.sh , a minimal read-it-later desktop app that captures content, transcripts, and summaries. One survey respondent noted: “I built an app that adds an iPhone bezel when I 'copy as png' from Figma and it's so magical!” Personalized software, custom-made for how you work At the individual level, designers are creating microtools when they have a specific need that an off-the-shelf tool can’t meet, like automating a tiny but repetitive step in their process. They’re also generating full-fledged apps that better fit their styles of thinking and communicating. “You can mold the tool to the thing you’re doing,” says Ryan Mather, a designer at Anthropic. “Need a quick dark mode simulator? Sure, just ask for one. Need to mock up mobile, wait no, tablet, wait no, desktop? Sure! Not a problem to make these schleps that used to be so hard, sometimes you just wouldn't make them.” Examples of tools created by designers: Gavin Potenza built Moodboard 3000 , a Figma plugin that generates composed moodboards. Amelia Wattenberger built a thought-organizing tool that turns spoken or typed ideas into structured cards in real time. Brian Lovin built shiori.sh , a minimal read-it-later desktop app that captures content, transcripts, and summaries. One survey respondent noted: “I built an app that adds an iPhone bezel when I 'copy as png' from Figma and it's so magical!” Personalized software, custom-made for how you work At the individual level, designers are creating microtools when they have a specific need that an off-the-shelf tool can’t meet, like automating a tiny but repetitive step in their process. They’re also generating full-fledged apps that better fit their styles of thinking and communicating. “You can mold the tool to the thing you’re doing,” says Ryan Mather, a designer at Anthropic. “Need a quick dark mode simulator? Sure, just ask for one. Need to mock up mobile, wait no, tablet, wait no, desktop? Sure! Not a problem to make these schleps that used to be so hard, sometimes you just wouldn't make them.” Examples of tools created by designers: Gavin Potenza built Moodboard 3000 , a Figma plugin that generates composed moodboards. Amelia Wattenberger built a thought-organizing tool that turns spoken or typed ideas into structured cards in real time. Brian Lovin built shiori.sh , a minimal read-it-later desktop app that captures content, transcripts, and summaries. One survey respondent noted: “I built an app that adds an iPhone bezel when I 'copy as png' from Figma and it's so magical!” What designers are building for their teams What designers are building for their teams What designers are building for their teams What designers are building for their teams At the company level, designers are building shared tools that solve problems for other designers as well as engineering, PM, and marketing. The most AI-forward teams we spoke with—especially those at enterprises—have invested in infrastructure and promotional channels (like show-and-tells, internal marketplaces, and skill libraries) that make it easy for designers to evangelize and borrow home-grown tools. Read more in Teams. At the company level, designers are building shared tools that solve problems for other designers as well as engineering, PM, and marketing. The most AI-forward teams we spoke with—especially those at enterprises—have invested in infrastructure and promotional channels (like show-and-tells, internal marketplaces, and skill libraries) that make it easy for designers to evangelize and borrow home-grown tools. Read more in Teams. At the company level, designers are building shared tools that solve problems for other designers as well as engineering, PM, and marketing. The most AI-forward teams we spoke with—especially those at enterprises—have invested in infrastructure and promotional channels (like show-and-tells, internal marketplaces, and skill libraries) that make it easy for designers to evangelize and borrow home-grown tools. Read more in Teams. At the company level, designers are building shared tools that solve problems for other designers as well as engineering, PM, and marketing. The most AI-forward teams we spoke with—especially those at enterprises—have invested in infrastructure and promotional channels (like show-and-tells, internal marketplaces, and skill libraries) that make it easy for designers to evangelize and borrow home-grown tools. Read more in Teams. “ Our team built ProtoDash, an AI-powered product playground with Stripe’s design system baked in. Now anyone can build a realistic prototype in minutes. And to scale content quality, we built Dante, a content tool integrated in the workflow—Slack, GitHub, docs, and the CLI—that makes it easy to do the right thing. Katie Dill Head of Design, Stripe “ I can enforce a high quality bar on everything that gets built, even if it’s not coming over my desk directly. I build the design system in the actual app now—buttons, dropdowns, popovers—and that’s a point of leverage to make sure even things I don’t touch look good. Nick Inzucchi Product Designer, Cursor “ We have an org-wide skill library in Claude, where I installed a visual brand skill that helps everyone across AirOps create on-brand landing pages, data visualizations, slides, and more. It caught on like wildfire. These would normally take my small brand team days to produce. It ended up inspiring an AirOps feature for our customers. Jessica Rosenberg Head of Brand, AirOps “ Our team built ProtoDash, an AI-powered product playground with Stripe’s design system baked in. Now anyone can build a realistic prototype in minutes. And to scale content quality, we built Dante, a content tool integrated in the workflow—Slack, GitHub, docs, and the CLI—that makes it easy to do the right thing. Katie Dill Head of Design, Stripe “ I can enforce a high quality bar on everything that gets built, even if it’s not coming over my desk directly. I build the design system in the actual app now—buttons, dropdowns, popovers—and that’s a point of leverage to make sure even things I don’t touch look good. Nick Inzucchi Product Designer, Cursor “ We have an org-wide skill library in Claude, where I installed a visual brand skill that helps everyone across AirOps create on-brand landing pages, data visualizations, slides, and more. It caught on like wildfire. These would normally take my small brand team days to produce. It ended up inspiring an AirOps feature for our customers. Jessica Rosenberg Head of Brand, AirOps “ Our team built ProtoDash, an AI-powered product playground with Stripe’s design system baked in. Now anyone can build a realistic prototype in minutes. And to scale content quality, we built Dante, a content tool integrated in the workflow—Slack, GitHub, docs, and the CLI—that makes it easy to do the right thing. Katie Dill Head of Design, Stripe “ I can enforce a high quality bar on everything that gets built, even if it’s not coming over my desk directly. I build the design system in the actual app now—buttons, dropdowns, popovers—and that’s a point of leverage to make sure even things I don’t touch look good. Nick Inzucchi Product Designer, Cursor “ We have an org-wide skill library in Claude, where I installed a visual brand skill that helps everyone across AirOps create on-brand landing pages, data visualizations, slides, and more. It caught on like wildfire. These would normally take my small brand team days to produce. It ended up inspiring an AirOps feature for our customers. Jessica Rosenberg Head of Brand, AirOps “ Our team built ProtoDash, an AI-powered product playground with Stripe’s design system baked in. Now anyone can build a realistic prototype in minutes. And to scale content quality, we built Dante, a content tool integrated in the workflow—Slack, GitHub, docs, and the CLI—that makes it easy to do the right thing. Katie Dill Head of Design, Stripe “ I can enforce a high quality bar on everything that gets built, even if it’s not coming over my desk directly. I build the design system in the actual app now—buttons, dropdowns, popovers—and that’s a point of leverage to make sure even things I don’t touch look good. Nick Inzucchi Product Designer, Cursor “ We have an org-wide skill library in Claude, where I installed a visual brand skill that helps everyone across AirOps create on-brand landing pages, data visualizations, slides, and more. It caught on like wildfire. These would normally take my small brand team days to produce. It ended up inspiring an AirOps feature for our customers. Jessica Rosenberg Head of Brand, AirOps IN PRACTICE Inside Anthropic’s internal design toolkit Anthropic’s design team uses a set of internal tools that speed up their work. A system of microtools—each supporting different phases of the design process—can become an extremely powerful asset for your team. Ideation sandbox: Takes a brief and generates many UI directions for early-stage exploration Design system picker: Plugs Anthropic's fonts, colors, and components into Claude so prototypes start on-brand Research index: Makes Anthropic’s user studies queryable, so anyone can check what’s already known in the organization Looping PRs: Once a change is approved, an agent opens the PR in GitHub and watches it through CI (continuous integration) until it merges—/loop and done Content guardrails: A Slack agent that scans production code for copy that drifts off-brand and suggests rewrites IN PRACTICE Inside Anthropic’s internal design toolkit Anthropic’s design team uses a set of internal tools that speed up their work. A system of microtools—each supporting different phases of the design process—can become an extremely powerful asset for your team. Ideation sandbox: Takes a brief and generates many UI directions for early-stage exploration Design system picker: Plugs Anthropic's fonts, colors, and components into Claude so prototypes start on-brand Research index: Makes Anthropic’s user studies queryable, so anyone can check what’s already known in the organization Looping PRs: Once a change is approved, an agent opens the PR in GitHub and watches it through CI (continuous integration) until it merges—/loop and done Content guardrails: A Slack agent that scans production code for copy that drifts off-brand and suggests rewrites IN PRACTICE Inside Anthropic’s internal design toolkit Anthropic’s design team uses a set of internal tools that speed up their work. A system of microtools—each supporting different phases of the design process—can become an extremely powerful asset for your team. Ideation sandbox: Takes a brief and generates many UI directions for early-stage exploration Design system picker: Plugs Anthropic's fonts, colors, and components into Claude so prototypes start on-brand Research index: Makes Anthropic’s user studies queryable, so anyone can check what’s already known in the organization Looping PRs: Once a change is approved, an agent opens the PR in GitHub and watches it through CI (continuous integration) until it merges—/loop and done Content guardrails: A Slack agent that scans production code for copy that drifts off-brand and suggests rewrites IN PRACTICE Inside Anthropic’s internal design toolkit Anthropic’s design team uses a set of internal tools that speed up their work. A system of microtools—each supporting different phases of the design process—can become an extremely powerful asset for your team. Ideation sandbox: Takes a brief and generates many UI directions for early-stage exploration Design system picker: Plugs Anthropic's fonts, colors, and components into Claude so prototypes start on-brand Research index: Makes Anthropic’s user studies queryable, so anyone can check what’s already known in the organization Looping PRs: Once a change is approved, an agent opens the PR in GitHub and watches it through CI (continuous integration) until it merges—/loop and done Content guardrails: A Slack agent that scans production code for copy that drifts off-brand and suggests rewrites Internal tool usage scales with company size Internal tool usage scales with company size Internal tool usage scales with company size Internal tool usage scales with company size 74% of designers at enterprise companies (2,000+ employees) use internal tools, compared to just 26% at small organizations (up to 50 employees)—a 5x difference. At enterprises, these tools rank as the second-most-used general AI category, behind Claude. 74% of designers at enterprise companies (2,000+ employees) use internal tools, compared to just 26% at small organizations (up to 50 employees)—a 5x difference. At enterprises, these tools rank as the second-most-used general AI category, behind Claude. 74% of designers at enterprise companies (2,000+ employees) use internal tools, compared to just 26% at small organizations (up to 50 employees)—a 5x difference. At enterprises, these tools rank as the second-most-used general AI category, behind Claude. 74% of designers at enterprise companies (2,000+ employees) use internal tools, compared to just 26% at small organizations (up to 50 employees)—a 5x difference. At enterprises, these tools rank as the second-most-used general AI category, behind Claude. Designers using internally-built AI tools, by company size 2,000+ employees 74 % 501-2,000 employees 48 % 51-500 employees 34 % 1-50 employees 26 % Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Designers using internally-built AI tools, by company size 2,000+ employees 74 % 501-2,000 employees 48 % 51-500 employees 34 % 1-50 employees 26 % Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Designers using internally-built AI tools, by company size 2,000+ employees 74 % 501-2,000 employees 48 % 51-500 employees 34 % 1-50 employees 26 % Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Designers using internally-built AI tools, by company size 2,000+ employees 74 % 501-2,000 employees 48 % 51-500 employees 34 % 1-50 employees 26 % Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Here are a few examples of how internal tools spread: Internal open-sourcing: Anthropic has a separate GitHub repo that open-sources what team members build, making it easy to borrow from one anothers’ projects, and adapt them into their own bespoke tools. Playgrounds: Notion built a prototype playground—an internal, shared Next.js codebase where designers can create interactive product prototypes. Each designer works in their own folder, with a shared set of Notion-like design system components already available out of the box. Leaderboards: Stripe created an internal ranking of the most popular employee-built plugins and a spreadsheet of agents anyone can run. Here are a few examples of how internal tools spread: Internal open-sourcing: Anthropic has a separate GitHub repo that open-sources what team members build, making it easy to borrow from one anothers’ projects, and adapt them into their own bespoke tools. Playgrounds: Notion built a prototype playground—an internal, shared Next.js codebase where designers can create interactive product prototypes. Each designer works in their own folder, with a shared set of Notion-like design system components already available out of the box. Leaderboards: Stripe created an internal ranking of the most popular employee-built plugins and a spreadsheet of agents anyone can run. Here are a few examples of how internal tools spread: Internal open-sourcing: Anthropic has a separate GitHub repo that open-sources what team members build, making it easy to borrow from one anothers’ projects, and adapt them into their own bespoke tools. Playgrounds: Notion built a prototype playground—an internal, shared Next.js codebase where designers can create interactive product prototypes. Each designer works in their own folder, with a shared set of Notion-like design system components already available out of the box. Leaderboards: Stripe created an internal ranking of the most popular employee-built plugins and a spreadsheet of agents anyone can run. Here are a few examples of how internal tools spread: Internal open-sourcing: Anthropic has a separate GitHub repo that open-sources what team members build, making it easy to borrow from one anothers’ projects, and adapt them into their own bespoke tools. Playgrounds: Notion built a prototype playground—an internal, shared Next.js codebase where designers can create interactive product prototypes. Each designer works in their own folder, with a shared set of Notion-like design system components already available out of the box. Leaderboards: Stripe created an internal ranking of the most popular employee-built plugins and a spreadsheet of agents anyone can run. Confidence vs. noise Confidence vs. noise 5. Confidence in tools is up, but so is the noise Confidence vs. noise Confidence vs. noise 5. Confidence in tools is up, but so is the noise Confidence vs. noise Confidence vs. noise 5. Confidence in tools is up, but so is the noise Confidence vs. noise Confidence vs. noise 5. Confidence in tools is up, but so is the noise Designers are feeling overall more confident in their AI toolstack compared to a year ago, but many are still exploring new options. Almost half of designers say they’re still searching for their go-to tools, while 37% say they’ve settled on a clear set of tools for most workflows. On average, designers who work at organizations with strong support for AI adoption report having higher confidence in knowing which AI tool to use for which design tasks. Designers are feeling overall more confident in their AI toolstack compared to a year ago, but many are still exploring new options. Almost half of designers say they’re still searching for their go-to tools, while 37% say they’ve settled on a clear set of tools for most workflows. On average, designers who work at organizations with strong support for AI adoption report having higher confidence in knowing which AI tool to use for which design tasks. Designers are feeling overall more confident in their AI toolstack compared to a year ago, but many are still exploring new options. Almost half of designers say they’re still searching for their go-to tools, while 37% say they’ve settled on a clear set of tools for most workflows. On average, designers who work at organizations with strong support for AI adoption report having higher confidence in knowing which AI tool to use for which design tasks. Designers are feeling overall more confident in their AI toolstack compared to a year ago, but many are still exploring new options. Almost half of designers say they’re still searching for their go-to tools, while 37% say they’ve settled on a clear set of tools for most workflows. On average, designers who work at organizations with strong support for AI adoption report having higher confidence in knowing which AI tool to use for which design tasks. Designers’ confidence in knowing which AI tools to use for which design tasks, compared to a year ago Designers' confidence in knowing which AI tools to use for which design tasks, compared to a year ago 37 % 49 % 6 % 6 % 2 % Much more confident - I have clear go-to tools for most workflows now ( 37 %) Somewhat more confident - I've figured out a few, still searching for others ( 49 %) About the same ( 6 %) Less confident - the landscape feels more overwhelming than it did a year ago ( 6 %) I wasn't using AI tools a year ago ( 2 %) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Designers’ confidence in knowing which AI tools to use for which design tasks, compared to a year ago Designers' confidence in knowing which AI tools to use for which design tasks, compared to a year ago 37 % 49 % 6 % 6 % 2 % Much more confident - I have clear go-to tools for most workflows now ( 37 %) Somewhat more confident - I've figured out a few, still searching for others ( 49 %) About the same ( 6 %) Less confident - the landscape feels more overwhelming than it did a year ago ( 6 %) I wasn't using AI tools a year ago ( 2 %) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Designers’ confidence in knowing which AI tools to use for which design tasks, compared to a year ago Designers' confidence in knowing which AI tools to use for which design tasks, compared to a year ago 37 % 49 % 6 % 6 % 2 % Much more confident - I have clear go-to tools for most workflows now ( 37 %) Somewhat more confident - I've figured out a few, still searching for others ( 49 %) About the same ( 6 %) Less confident - the landscape feels more overwhelming than it did a year ago ( 6 %) I wasn't using AI tools a year ago ( 2 %) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Designers’ confidence in knowing which AI tools to use for which design tasks, compared to a year ago Designers' confidence in knowing which AI tools to use for which design tasks, compared to a year ago 37 % 49 % 6 % 6 % 2 % Much more confident - I have clear go-to tools for most workflows now ( 37 %) Somewhat more confident - I've figured out a few, still searching for others ( 49 %) About the same ( 6 %) Less confident - the landscape feels more overwhelming than it did a year ago ( 6 %) I wasn't using AI tools a year ago ( 2 %) Source: AI in Design survey, Q1 2026 Keeping up is taxing Keeping up is taxing Keeping up is taxing Keeping up is taxing The tools seem to change daily as capabilities evolve. Some designers describe this as a never-ending “molting process” that requires rethinking their entire workflow regularly. Many others report a growing workload, both to keep up with testing the latest tools and because expanded capabilities give them more possibilities of what to work on. Research from Harvard Business Review corroborates this: AI doesn’t reduce work, it intensifies it. The tools seem to change daily as capabilities evolve. Some designers describe this as a never-ending “molting process” that requires rethinking their entire workflow regularly. Many others report a growing workload, both to keep up with testing the latest tools and because expanded capabilities give them more possibilities of what to work on. Research from Harvard Business Review corroborates this: AI doesn’t reduce work, it intensifies it. The tools seem to change daily as capabilities evolve. Some designers describe this as a never-ending “molting process” that requires rethinking their entire workflow regularly. Many others report a growing workload, both to keep up with testing the latest tools and because expanded capabilities give them more possibilities of what to work on. Research from Harvard Business Review corroborates this: AI doesn’t reduce work, it intensifies it. The tools seem to change daily as capabilities evolve. Some designers describe this as a never-ending “molting process” that requires rethinking their entire workflow regularly. Many others report a growing workload, both to keep up with testing the latest tools and because expanded capabilities give them more possibilities of what to work on. Research from Harvard Business Review corroborates this: AI doesn’t reduce work, it intensifies it. FYI you don't have to keep up with all the AI stuff, it's mostly noise just pick one tool (probably claude code/codex) and make the stuff you want to make. you'll find it's a lot easier than you expected. you'll get new ideas have fun and don't let the panic run your life — kelin (@kelin_online) March 20, 2026 FYI you don't have to keep up with all the AI stuff, it's mostly noise just pick one tool (probably claude code/codex) and make the stuff you want to make. you'll find it's a lot easier than you expected. you'll get new ideas have fun and don't let the panic run your life — kelin (@kelin_online) March 20, 2026 FYI you don't have to keep up with all the AI stuff, it's mostly noise just pick one tool (probably claude code/codex) and make the stuff you want to make. you'll find it's a lot easier than you expected. you'll get new ideas have fun and don't let the panic run your life — kelin (@kelin_online) March 20, 2026 FYI you don't have to keep up with all the AI stuff, it's mostly noise just pick one tool (probably claude code/codex) and make the stuff you want to make. you'll find it's a lot easier than you expected. you'll get new ideas have fun and don't let the panic run your life — kelin (@kelin_online) March 20, 2026 “ Every day someone is sharing a tool/workflow they saw. It's both exciting and draining, as it creates a lot of noise that makes it harder and harder to understand what tools are worth considering. Workflows and process cannot change every day, it becomes unsustainable. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ Many companies are missing out on great talent because they think a candidate needs to come in already knowing every new AI tool. These technologies change constantly—you can't expect mastery yet. And in reality, founders themselves are often still figuring out the landscape. That can lead to over-indexing on tool coverage in hiring as a way to compensate. The better approach is to hire for potential, taste, and motivation—and to invest time in understanding how designers work and what drives them. Garrett Fowler Design Recruiter and Founder, Offsite “ Every day someone is sharing a tool/workflow they saw. It's both exciting and draining, as it creates a lot of noise that makes it harder and harder to understand what tools are worth considering. Workflows and process cannot change every day, it becomes unsustainable. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ Many companies are missing out on great talent because they think a candidate needs to come in already knowing every new AI tool. These technologies change constantly—you can't expect mastery yet. And in reality, founders themselves are often still figuring out the landscape. That can lead to over-indexing on tool coverage in hiring as a way to compensate. The better approach is to hire for potential, taste, and motivation—and to invest time in understanding how designers work and what drives them. Garrett Fowler Design Recruiter and Founder, Offsite “ Every day someone is sharing a tool/workflow they saw. It's both exciting and draining, as it creates a lot of noise that makes it harder and harder to understand what tools are worth considering. Workflows and process cannot change every day, it becomes unsustainable. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ Many companies are missing out on great talent because they think a candidate needs to come in already knowing every new AI tool. These technologies change constantly—you can't expect mastery yet. And in reality, founders themselves are often still figuring out the landscape. That can lead to over-indexing on tool coverage in hiring as a way to compensate. The better approach is to hire for potential, taste, and motivation—and to invest time in understanding how designers work and what drives them. Garrett Fowler Design Recruiter and Founder, Offsite “ Every day someone is sharing a tool/workflow they saw. It's both exciting and draining, as it creates a lot of noise that makes it harder and harder to understand what tools are worth considering. Workflows and process cannot change every day, it becomes unsustainable. Individual contributor Growth-stage company “ Many companies are missing out on great talent because they think a candidate needs to come in already knowing every new AI tool. These technologies change constantly—you can't expect mastery yet. And in reality, founders themselves are often still figuring out the landscape. That can lead to over-indexing on tool coverage in hiring as a way to compensate. The better approach is to hire for potential, taste, and motivation—and to invest time in understanding how designers work and what drives them. Garrett Fowler Design Recruiter and Founder, Offsite Where do we go from here? Where do we go from here? Where do we go from here? Where do we go from here? Where do we go from here? Where do we go from here? Where do we go from here? Where do we go from here? We’re curious how design tools and workflows will continue to evolve as more work becomes mediated by AI. What will craft look like in the age of AI? Visual output has been the dominant proof of craft, but this could become more difficult to discern as AI capabilities improve. Will the bar for craft shift to storytelling and brand? How will designers use Figma going forward? Figma has been at the center of design workflows for over a decade, defining how teams collaborate and build together. But as design tools become more connected to code and agents, what will its role become? Will we see a consolidated design platform? Designers are stitching together many more tools to get work done than they did a year ago, and in some cases they’re building their own. But many are also asking for the opposite: fewer tools, better integrated, and in one place. Will a single platform emerge as the default, or will orchestration across multiple tools become the norm? Will we ever have a “go-to design stack” again? If designers can build their ideal software or pick from a deluge of new off-the-shelf tools, we wonder whether every team, or perhaps every person, will have a different default stack—and whether even that will stay consistent for more than a few months at a time. How long will it take for model capabilities to catch up to what a human designer can do? If it’s true that AI’s quality will mature to handle most production and visual design work, what timeline are we talking about, and what parts of design will remain out of reach for AI tools? We’re curious how design tools and workflows will continue to evolve as more work becomes mediated by AI. What will craft look like in the age of AI? Visual output has been the dominant proof of craft, but this could become more difficult to discern as AI capabilities improve. Will the bar for craft shift to storytelling and brand? How will designers use Figma going forward? Figma has been at the center of design workflows for over a decade, defining how teams collaborate and build together. But as design tools become more connected to code and agents, what will its role become? Will we see a consolidated design platform? Designers are stitching together many more tools to get work done than they did a year ago, and in some cases they’re building their own. But many are also asking for the opposite: fewer tools, better integrated, and in one place. Will a single platform emerge as the default, or will orchestration across multiple tools become the norm? Will we ever have a “go-to design stack” again? If designers can build their ideal software or pick from a deluge of new off-the-shelf tools, we wonder whether every team, or perhaps every person, will have a different default stack—and whether even that will stay consistent for more than a few months at a time. How long will it take for model capabilities to catch up to what a human designer can do? If it’s true that AI’s quality will mature to handle most production and visual design work, what timeline are we talking about, and what parts of design will remain out of reach for AI tools? We’re curious how design tools and workflows will continue to evolve as more work becomes mediated by AI. What will craft look like in the age of AI? Visual output has been the dominant proof of craft, but this could become more difficult to discern as AI capabilities improve. Will the bar for craft shift to storytelling and brand? How will designers use Figma going forward? Figma has been at the center of design workflows for over a decade, defining how teams collaborate and build together. But as design tools become more connected to code and agents, what will its role become? Will we see a consolidated design platform? Designers are stitching together many more tools to get work done than they did a year ago, and in some cases they’re building their own. But many are also asking for the opposite: fewer tools, better integrated, and in one place. Will a single platform emerge as the default, or will orchestration across multiple tools become the norm? Will we ever have a “go-to design stack” again? If designers can build their ideal software or pick from a deluge of new off-the-shelf tools, we wonder whether every team, or perhaps every person, will have a different default stack—and whether even that will stay consistent for more than a few months at a time. How long will it take for model capabilities to catch up to what a human designer can do? If it’s true that AI’s quality will mature to handle most production and visual design work, what timeline are we talking about, and what parts of design will remain out of reach for AI tools? We’re curious how design tools and workflows will continue to evolve as more work becomes mediated by AI. What will craft look like in the age of AI? Visual output has been the dominant proof of craft, but this could become more difficult to discern as AI capabilities improve. Will the bar for craft shift to storytelling and brand? How will designers use Figma going forward? Figma has been at the center of design workflows for over a decade, defining how teams collaborate and build together. But as design tools become more connected to code and agents, what will its role become? Will we see a consolidated design platform? Designers are stitching together many more tools to get work done than they did a year ago, and in some cases they’re building their own. But many are also asking for the opposite: fewer tools, better integrated, and in one place. Will a single platform emerge as the default, or will orchestration across multiple tools become the norm? Will we ever have a “go-to design stack” again? If designers can build their ideal software or pick from a deluge of new off-the-shelf tools, we wonder whether every team, or perhaps every person, will have a different default stack—and whether even that will stay consistent for more than a few months at a time. How long will it take for model capabilities to catch up to what a human designer can do? If it’s true that AI’s quality will mature to handle most production and visual design work, what timeline are we talking about, and what parts of design will remain out of reach for AI tools? Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways Key takeaways 01 Designers are using double the number of off-the-shelf AI tools than they did a year ago. Nearly all our respondents use AI in their design work weekly or daily. Most are still figuring out their go-to tools, and we expect the toolstack to become fluid. 02 Designers are building their own design tools with AI. They’re inventing microtools and robust agentic workflows to automate manual work, create the design software they’ve always wished they had, or simply save cash. 03 Enterprises are solving for security and compliance by building internal tools. Designers at larger companies are much more likely to use internally built AI tools. This workaround allows enterprise design teams to adopt AI and stay on the forefront. 04 Claude appears to have overtaken ChatGPT in the last year. Claude and Claude Code are the most commonly used commercial tools in the “General AI” and “Coding” categories. 05 We’re still in an era of unreliable output quality. The landscape of AI design software in early 2026 is orders of magnitude more robust compared to a year ago, but designers still cite inconsistent output quality as the top challenge of AI tools in design work. 01 Designers are using double the number of off-the-shelf AI tools than they did a year ago. Nearly all our respondents use AI in their design work weekly or daily. Most are still figuring out their go-to tools, and we expect the toolstack to become fluid. 02 Designers are building their own design tools with AI. They’re inventing microtools and robust agentic workflows to automate manual work, create the design software they’ve always wished they had, or simply save cash. 03 Enterprises are solving for security and compliance by building internal tools. Designers at larger companies are much more likely to use internally built AI tools. This workaround allows enterprise design teams to adopt AI and stay on the forefront. 04 Claude appears to have overtaken ChatGPT in the last year. Claude and Claude Code are the most commonly used commercial tools in the “General AI” and “Coding” categories. 05 We’re still in an era of unreliable output quality. The landscape of AI design software in early 2026 is orders of magnitude more robust compared to a year ago, but designers still cite inconsistent output quality as the top challenge of AI tools in design work. 01 Designers are using double the number of off-the-shelf AI tools than they did a year ago. Nearly all our respondents use AI in their design work weekly or daily. Most are still figuring out their go-to tools, and we expect the toolstack to become fluid. 02 Designers are building their own design tools with AI. They’re inventing microtools and robust agentic workflows to automate manual work, create the design software they’ve always wished they had, or simply save cash. 03 Enterprises are solving for security and compliance by building internal tools. Designers at larger companies are much more likely to use internally built AI tools. This workaround allows enterprise design teams to adopt AI and stay on the forefront. 04 Claude appears to have overtaken ChatGPT in the last year. Claude and Claude Code are the most commonly used commercial tools in the “General AI” and “Coding” categories. 05 We’re still in an era of unreliable output quality. The landscape of AI design software in early 2026 is orders of magnitude more robust compared to a year ago, but designers still cite inconsistent output quality as the top challenge of AI tools in design work. 01 Designers are using double the number of off-the-shelf AI tools than they did a year ago. Nearly all our respondents use AI in their design work weekly or daily. Most are still figuring out their go-to tools, and we expect the toolstack to become fluid. 02 Designers are building their own design tools with AI. They’re inventing microtools and robust agentic workflows to automate manual work, create the design software they’ve always wished they had, or simply save cash. 03 Enterprises are solving for security and compliance by building internal tools. Designers at larger companies are much more likely to use internally built AI tools. This workaround allows enterprise design teams to adopt AI and stay on the forefront. 04 Claude appears to have overtaken ChatGPT in the last year. Claude and Claude Code are the most commonly used commercial tools in the “General AI” and “Coding” categories. 05 We’re still in an era of unreliable output quality. The landscape of AI design software in early 2026 is orders of magnitude more robust compared to a year ago, but designers still cite inconsistent output quality as the top challenge of AI tools in design work. Further reading Further reading Relevant posts & resources “What’s next for design tools” — David Hoang www.proofofconcept.pub “State of Prototyping: Spring 2026” — UX Tools survey.uxtools.co Designtools.fyi designtools.fyi “AI Doesn’t Reduce Work—It Intensifies It” — Harvard Business Review hbr.org “How I AI: Stripe’s Owen Williams on Killing ‘Blurple Slop’ with an Internal Prototyping Studio” — Owen Williams and Claire Vo www.chatprd.ai Further reading Further reading Relevant posts & resources “What’s next for design tools” — David Hoang www.proofofconcept.pub “State of Prototyping: Spring 2026” — UX Tools survey.uxtools.co Designtools.fyi designtools.fyi “AI Doesn’t Reduce Work—It Intensifies It” — Harvard Business Review hbr.org “How I AI: Stripe’s Owen Williams on Killing ‘Blurple Slop’ with an Internal Prototyping Studio” — Owen Williams and Claire Vo www.chatprd.ai Further reading Further reading “What’s next for design tools” — David Hoang www.proofofconcept.pub “State of Prototyping: Spring 2026” — UX Tools survey.uxtools.co Designtools.fyi designtools.fyi “AI Doesn’t Reduce Work—It Intensifies It” — Harvard Business Review hbr.org “How I AI: Stripe’s Owen Williams on Killing ‘Blurple Slop’ with an Internal Prototyping Studio” — Owen Williams and Claire Vo www.chatprd.ai Further reading Further reading Relevant posts & resources “What’s next for design tools” — David Hoang www.proofofconcept.pub “State of Prototyping: Spring 2026” — UX Tools survey.uxtools.co Designtools.fyi designtools.fyi “AI Doesn’t Reduce Work—It Intensifies It” — Harvard Business Review hbr.org “How I AI: Stripe’s Owen Williams on Killing ‘Blurple Slop’ with an Internal Prototyping Studio” — Owen Williams and Claire Vo www.chatprd.ai Next Chapter 02 . Craft 02 . Craft ‹ Get new case studies & report markdown Download the markdown version of the report, ready to drop into any tool. Get notified as new case studies go live. Submit By subscribing, you agree to receive communications from Designer Fund and Foundation Capital in accordance with their privacy policies. Methodology This report draws from 0 Survey responses 0 + Interviews 0 + Public sources Report Partners Anthropic Framer Stripe Sierra Notion Shopify Linear Report Read the Report About Case Studies ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Made in Framer by ++hellohello Get new case studies & report markdown Download the markdown version of the report, ready to drop into any tool. Get notified as new case studies go live. Submit By subscribing, you agree to receive communications from Designer Fund and Foundation Capital in accordance with their privacy policies. Methodology This report draws from 0 Survey responses 0 + Interviews 0 + Public sources Report Partners Anthropic Framer Stripe Sierra Notion Shopify Linear Report Read the Report About Case Studies ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Made in Framer by ++hellohello Get new case studies & report markdown Download the markdown version of the report, ready to drop into any tool. Get notified as new case studies go live. Submit By subscribing, you agree to receive communications from Designer Fund and Foundation Capital in accordance with their privacy policies. Methodology This report draws from 0 Survey responses 0 + Interviews 0 + Public sources Report Partners Anthropic Framer Stripe Sierra Notion Shopify Linear Report Read the Report About Case Studies ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Made in Framer by ++hellohello Get new case studies & report markdown Download the markdown version of the report, ready to drop into any tool. Get notified as new case studies go live. Submit By subscribing, you agree to receive communications from Designer Fund and Foundation Capital in accordance with their privacy policies. Methodology This report draws from 0 Survey responses 0 + Interviews 0 + Public sources Report Partners Anthropic Framer Stripe Sierra Notion Shopify Linear Report Read the Report About Case Studies ©2026 Designer Fund, Foundation Capital. All rights reserved Made in Framer by ++hellohello 